STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03117309
Section: INTERIM_ANALYSIS
Features: pro_qol, consistency_bridging, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

CC who are registered on study will be assessed for tumor response using 
traditional RECIST 1.1 criteria both for Part A and Part B (if they have measurable disease at 
time of crossover).  
 
12.11 Interim Analysis/Criteria for Stopping Study 
A two-stage design will be used for Part B for the ccRCC population. In this study the first 
cohort 29 patients will be accrued, treated and evaluated for response in order to provide 
guidance on whether to continue to enroll the entire cohort of 60 patients. The first stage analysis 
will be conducted without pausing accrual to Part B. If among the first 29 Part B patients there 
are at least 2 responses, there will be sufficient evidence to continue recruitment to Part B. With 
a true uninteresting response rate of 5%, there is a 57% chance of declaring the regimen 
uninteresting; however, with an interesting response rate of 20%, there is greater than 95% 
chance of continuing.  
 
Clinical Study Protocol 
HCRN GU16-260 
Version Date: 25MAR2021 
Confidential 
Page 57 of 71 
13. 
TRIAL MANAGEMENT 
 
13.1 
Data and Safety Monitoring Plan (DSMP) 
The study will be conducted with guidance from the Georgetown-Lombardi Comprehensive 
Cancer Center’s (Georgetown LCCC) DSMP.  
 
HCRN oversight activities include: 
 Review all adverse events requiring expedited reporting as defined in the protocol 
 Provide trial accrual progress, safety information and data summary reports to the 
sponsor-investigator  
 Submit data summary reports to the lead institution Data Safety Monitoring Committee 
per Georgetown LCCC’s DSMP. 
 Submit data summary reports to the DSMC for review per DSMC SOP 
 
13.2 
Georgetown-Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center’s Data Safety Monitoring 
Committee 
HCRN will provide the following for the Georgetown LCCC’s DSMC to review: 
 Adverse event summary report 
 Monitoring reports and audit results if applicable 
 Data related to stopping/decision rules described in study design 
 Study accrual patterns  
 Protocol deviations 
 
The Georgetown LCCC DSMC will review study data every quarter.  Documentation of DSMC 
reviews will be provided to sponsor-investigator and HCRN.  Issues of immediate concern by the 
DSMC will be brought to the attention of the sponsor-investigator and other regulatory bodies as 
appropriate.  The sponsor-investigator will work with HCRN to address the DSMC’s concerns.    
 
13.3 
Data Quality Oversight Activities 
Remote validation of the EDC system data will be completed on a continual basis throughout the 
life cycle of the study.  Automated edit check listings will be used to generate queries in the EDC 
system and transmitted to the site to address in a timely fashion. Corrections will be made by the 
study site personnel. 
 
Monitoring visits to the trial sites may be made periodically during the trial to ensure key aspects 
of the protocol are followed. For cause audits may be performed as necessary. During onsite 
monitoring visits, source documents will be reviewed for verification of agreement with data 
entered into the EDC system.  It is important for the site investigator and their relevant personnel 
to be available for a sufficient amount of time during the monitoring visits or audit, if applicable. 
The site investigator and institution guarantee access to source documents by HCRN or its 
designee. 
 
The trial site may also be subject to quality assurance audit, as well as inspection by appropriate 
regulatory agencies. 
 
Clinical Study Protocol 
HCRN GU16-260 
Version Date: 25MAR2021 
Confidential 
Page 58 of 71 
13.4 
Compliance with Trial Registration and Results Posting Requirements 
Under the terms of the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act (FDAMA) and the 
Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act (FDAAA), the sponsor-investigator of the trial 
is solely responsible for determining whether the trial and its results are subject to the 
requirements for submission to the Clinical Trials Data Bank, http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. All 
results of primary and secondary objectives must be posted to CT.gov within a year of 
completion.  The sponsor-investigator has delegated responsibility to HCRN for registering the 
trial and posting the results on clinicaltrials.gov. Information posted will allow subjects to 
identify potentially appropriate trials for their disease conditions and pursue participation by 
calling a central contact number for further information on appropriate trial locations and study 
site contact information.   
 
14. 
DATA HANDLING AND RECORD KEEPING 
 
14.1 
Data Management 
HCRN will serve as the Clinical Research Organization for this trial. Data will be collected 
through a web based clinical research platform, a system compliant with Good Clinical Practices 
and Federal Rules and Regulations.  HCRN personnel will coordinate and manage data for 
quality control assurance and integrity. All data will be collected and entered into the EDC 
system by study site personnel from participating institutions.   
 
14.2 
Case Report Forms and Submission 
Generally, clinical data will be electronically captured in the EDC system and correlative results 
will be captured in the EDC system