STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03502330
Section: INTERIM_ANALYSIS
Features: consistency_bridging, immunotherapy, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

e study, lack of efficacy that poses significant hazard to study subjects, 
clinically significant safety finding from a nonclinical (eg, animal) study, important 
safety recommendations from a study data monitoring committee, or sponsor decision 
to end or temporarily halt a clinical study for safety reasons. 
o Upon receiving an ESR from BMS or Apexigen, the investigator must review and retain 
the ESR with the IB. Where required by local regulations or when there is a central 
IRB/IEC for the study, the sponsor will submit the ESR to the appropriate IRB/IEC. The 
investigator and IRB/IEC will determine if the informed consent requires revision. The 
investigator should also comply with the IRB/IEC procedures for reporting any other 
safety information. 
 
SAEs, whether related or not related to study drug, and pregnancies must be reported to BMS 
and Apexigen within 24 hours \ 1 Business Day of becoming aware of the event. SAEs must be 
recorded on either CIOMS, MedWatch, or approved site SAE form. 
 
Pregnancies must be reported and submitted to BMS and to Apexigen. Investigator will perform 
due diligence follow-up using the BMS Pregnancy Form which the investigator must complete.  
 
BMS SAE Email Address:  Worldwide.Safety@BMS.com 
Apexigen SAE Email Address: drugsafety@apexigen.com 
 
BMS SAE Facsimile Number: +1 609-818-3804 
Apexigen SAE Facsimilie Number (required for SAE and pregnancy reporting):  
+1 510-295- 6449 
- 
If only limited information is initially available, follow-up reports are required  
 
If only limited information is initially available, follow-up reports are required. (Note: Follow-up 
SAE reports should include the same investigator term(s) initially reported.) 
 
If an ongoing SAE changes in its intensity or relationship to study drug or if new information 
becomes available, a follow-up SAE report should be sent within 24 hours \ 1 Business Day to 
BMS and Apexigen  using the same procedure used for transmitting the initial SAE report. 
 
All SAEs should be followed to resolution or stabilization. 
 
The causal relationship to study drug is determined by a physician and should be used to assess all 
adverse events (AE). The causal relationship can be one of the following: 
 
Related: There is a reasonable causal relationship between study drug administration and the AE. 
 
Not related: There is not a reasonable causal relationship between study drug administration and 
 
CA025-007 Clinical Protocol 
Version 10 
21-Mar-2022 
Page 107 of 135 
Confidential 
 
 
 
the AE. 
 
The term “reasonable causal relationship” means there is evidence to suggest a causal relationship. 
 
Adverse events can be spontaneously reported or elicited during open-ended questioning, 
examination, or evaluation of a subject. (In order to prevent reporting bias, subjects should not be 
questioned regarding the specific occurrence of one or more AEs.) 
 
 
Non-Serious Adverse Event 
 
• Non-serious Adverse Events (AE) are to be provided to BMS and to Apexigen in aggregate 
via interim or final study reports as specified in the agreement or, if a regulatory requirement 
[e.g., IND US trial] as part of an annual reporting requirement. 
• Non-serious AE information should also be collected from the start of a placebo lead-in 
period or other observational period intended to establish a baseline status for the subjects. 
 
 
Non-serious Adverse Event Collection and Reporting 
 
The collection of non-serious AE information should begin at initiation of study drug. All non-
serious adverse events (not only those deemed to be treatment-related) should be collected 
continuously during the treatment period and for a minimum of 100 (+7) days following the last 
dose of study treatment or until initiation of subsequent anti-cancer therapy, whichever comes first.  
 
Non-serious AEs should be followed to resolution or stabilization, or reported as SAEs if they 
become serious. Follow-up is also required for non-serious AEs that cause interruption or 
discontinuation of study drug and for those present at the end of study treatment as appropriate. 
 
Laboratory Test Abnormalities 
 
All laboratory test results captured as part of the study should be recorded following institutional 
procedures. Test results that constitute SAEs should be documented and reported to BMS as such. 
The following laboratory abnormalities should be documented and reported appropriately: 
• 
any laboratory test result that is clinically significant or meets the definition of an SAE 
• 
any laboratory abnormality that required the participant to have study drug discontinued or 
interrupted any laboratory abnormality that required the subject to receive specific corrective 
therapy.  
It is expected that wherever possible, the clinical rather than laboratory term would be used by the 
reporting investigator (eg, anemia versus low hemoglobin value). 
 
CA025-007 Clinical Protocol 
Version 10 
21-Mar-2022 
Page 108 of 135 
Confidential 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy 
If, following initiation of the investigational product, it is subsequently discovered that a study 
participant is pregnant or may have been pregnant at the time of investigational product 
exposure, includ