STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT02060188
Section: INTERIM_ANALYSIS
Features: pro_qol, consistency_bridging, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

bed. 
The 
detailed 
of these 
analyses will be provided in the SAP.
8.5
Interim Analyses
For each treatment arm in the MSI-H cohort (mStage 1 monotherapy and combination therapy, if 
applicable),one interim analysis of investigator-assessed ORR will be performed on the first 
19treated subjects with confirmed MSI-H CRC.If there are 6 or fewer responses in these first 
19treated subjects, accrual to the corresponding treatment arm will be stopped. Otherwise, 
approximately 29additional confirmed MSI-H subjects will be accrued into the corresponding 
treatment arm to target a total of 48 treated subjects in that arm. 
Subjects in mStage 1 or cStage 1 who remain on treatment should complete a 24-week follow up 
for an assessment of ORR.The final analyses of these initial MSI-H cohort will take place after 
sufficient follow-up has been achieved for most or all of the subjects (eg, 6 months of treatment 
for the monotherapy cohort and 9 months of treatment for the combination therapy cohort). 
Anticipating a different enrollment rate in cohortsC3-C6, thesecohortswill be analyzed 
independently. Interim analyses will be conducted approximately 6months after the last subject
treated in the corresponding cohort.
Protocol Amendment No: 09
Date: 27-Aug-2021
194
10.0
Approved
930073805
10.0
v
Approved 1.0
v
Clinical Protocol
CA209142
BMS-936558
nivolumab
In addition, other interim analyses may be conducted to seek initial efficacy signal or for external 
data disclosurefor these cohorts. 
9
STUDY MANAGEMENT
9.1
Compliance
9.1.1
Compliance with the Protocol and Protocol Revisions
The study shall be conducted as described in this approved protocol. All revisions to the protocol 
must be discussed with, and be prepared by, BMS. The investigator should not implement any 
deviation or change to the protocol without prior review and documented approval/favorable 
opinion from the IRB/IEC of an amendment, except where necessary to eliminate an immediate 
hazard(s) to study subjects. 
If a deviation or change to a protocol is implemented to eliminate an immediate hazard(s) prior to 
obtaining IRB/IEC approval/favorable opinion, as soon as possible the deviation or change will be
submitted to:
IRB/IEC for review and approval/favorable opinion
BMS
Regulatory Authority(ies), if required by local regulations
Documentation of approval signed by the chairperson or designee of the IRB(s)/IEC(s) must be 
sent to BMS.
If an amendment substantially alters the study design or increases the potential risk to the subject: 
(1) the consent form must be revised and submitted to the IRB(s)/IEC(s) for review and 
approval/favorable opinion; (2) the revised form must be used to obtain consent from subjects 
currently enrolled in the study if they are affected by the amendment; and (3) the new form must 
be used to obtain consent from new subjects prior to enrollment.
If the revision is done via an administrative letter, investigators must inform their IRB(s)/IEC(s).
9.1.2
Monitoring
Monitoring details describing strategy, including definition of study critical data items and 
processes (eg, risk-based initiatives in operations and quality such as risk management and 
mitigation strategies and analytical risk-based monitoring), methods, responsibilities, and 
requirements, including handling of noncompliance issues and monitoring techniques (central, 
remote, or on-site monitoring) are provided in the monitoring plan.
Representatives of BMS must be allowed to visit all study site locations periodically to assess the 
data quality and study integrity. On site they will review study records and directly compare them 
with source documents, discuss the conduct of the study with the investigator, and verify that the 
facilities remain acceptable.
Protocol Amendment No: 09
Date: 27-Aug-2021
195
10.0
Approved
930073805
10.0
v
Approved 1.0
v
Clinical Protocol
CA209142
BMS-936558
nivolumab
In addition, the study may be evaluated by BMS internal auditors and government inspectors who 
must be allowed access to CRFs, source documents, other study files, and study facilities. BMS 
audit reports will be kept confidential.
The investigator 
must 
notify 
BMS promptly 
of 
any inspections scheduled by regulatory 
authorities, 
and promptly forward copies of inspection reports to BMS. 
9.1.3
Investigational Site Training
Bristol-Myers Squibb will provide quality investigational staff training prior 
to study initiationand 
prior to implementation of any significant protocol revision. Training topics will include but are 
not limited to: GCP, AE reporting, study details and procedure, electronic CRFs, study
documentation, informed consent, andenrollment of WOCBP.
9.2
Records
9.2.1
Records Retention
The investigator must retain all study recordsand source documents for the maximum period 
required by applicable regulations and guidelines, or institution procedures, or for the period 
specified by BMS, whichever is longer. The investigator must contact BMS prior to destroying 
any records associated with the study.
BMS will notify the investigator when the study records are no longer needed.
If the investigator withdraws from the study (eg, relocation, retirement), the