STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03494166
Section: ENDPOINTS
Features: pro_qol, consistency_bridging, pro_endpoints
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

ses practical resource needs (e.g., finances).182 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Version Date:  09/10/2021 
 
 
Page 16 
 
 
 
 
 
8.0 
STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS 
Analysis Plan for answering objectives including endpoint definitions, patient accrual 
objectives, and estimated duration of study. This section should be developed in consultation 
with appropriate biostatistician. 
 
 
 
Potential Covariates and Future Tailoring Variables. Demographic characteristics include survivors’ 
age, education, work, ethnicity, race, acculturation, and marital status, and language of intervention 
delivery. Receipt and enactment of intervention strategies are measured during weeks 1-12. Receipt is the 
number of completed weekly sessions. Enactment of the SMSH strategies is assessed at the beginning of 
calls during weeks 2-12. Enactment of the TIP-C will be measured by tracking the implementation of 
behaviors discussed and completion of the assigned homework as documented in counselor’s field notes 
for each session. Survivors’ chart data will include radiation, surgery, chemotherapy, targeted or 
hormonal therapy (dose, type, dates received), co-morbidities, cancer site and stage, and medications 
(e.g., supportive agents for symptoms) corresponding with the time-on study. 
 
Scientific Rigor and Transparency. The scientific rigor of this study is ensured by the randomized 
design and complete inclusion/exclusion criteria defining the population to which findings would be 
generalizable. We also have a reproducible manualized protocol for the interventions, tracking of 
intervention fidelity, dose, receipt and enactment, use of measures with solid evidence of reliability and 
validity, blinding of data collectors and transparent assessment and statistical analysis plans including 
attention to biases and the missing data. 
 
Sex as a biological variable. We expect more than 50% of the sample to be female (Human Subjects 
section). We will consider sex as covariate and a potential future tailoring variable in the exploratory aim. 
 
Analytic Methods 
Data management. Data will be entered into the secure web-based database that will be accessible to 
recruiters, interveners and interviewers. The RA will perform quarterly quality assurance checks of the 
data, supervised by Dr. Sikorskii. De-identified data will be transferred into SAS 9.4 for analyses. 
Distributions of outcomes and potential covariates will be summarized. Outliers will be investigated by 
inspecting the residuals, and models described below will be fit with and without outliers to examine 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Version Date:  09/10/2021 
 
 
Page 17 
 
their influence on the results. Sensitivity to the degree of personalization of TIP-C (see C7d) will be 
examined by relating it to the primary outcome at week 13 for those who received this intervention. 
 
Attrition Analyses and Handling of Missing Data. Attrition will also be compared between each pair of 
randomized groups. In addition, we will compare characteristics of those who completed the study with 
those who did not within their designated group to inform the generalizability of findings. The regression 
techniques described below allow for missing at random (MAR) mechanism.199 If patterns of missing 
data indicate potential not missing at random (NMAR) mechanisms, then models describing missing 
mechanisms will be considered (e.g., pattern-mixture models),200,201 and sensitivity analyses will gauge 
the robustness of the results. 
 
Primary Analysis. The intent-to-treat principle will be followed. 
Aim 1. Hypothesis 1 will be tested using statistical model #1 that relates repeated measures of the 
survivor primary outcome y (summed severity index) to the group assignment variable 𝑥𝑥1, outcome at 
baseline 𝑥𝑥2, time entered as a class variable to model potentially non-linear patterns, and other covariates. 
Because the symptom severity index is expected to follow a right-skewed distribution, this model will be 
fit as a generalized linear mixed effects (GLME) model with gamma distributed errors. The main effects 
of the group variable 𝑥𝑥1 (average difference over time between groups created by the first randomization) 
will be tested. While summed symptom severity is a succinct outcome summarizing 15 symptoms, it has 
its drawbacks that will be overcome with the next analysis that focuses on specific symptom responses 
(secondary outcomes). The unit of analysis will be symptom case. Cases reaching moderate or severe at 
baseline or any time during weekly calls will be analyzed. Symptom responses and times-to-response 
defined under measures will be analyzed using methodology described by Sikorskii et al.97 Patient 
symptom responses are treated as multiple events, and associations among responses to multiple 
symptoms nested within patients will be accounted for in the GLME model with binomial errors. 
Marginal Cox proportional hazard models with a robust sandwich covariance matrix estimate 
implemented in PHREG procedure in SAS203,204 will be employed for the analysis of multiple times to 
response nested within survivor. Symptom- and survivor-level covariates will be included in the model, 
and different intervention eff