STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT02743819
Section: ENDPOINTS
Features: immunotherapy, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

unity to investigate blood or tumor based 
factors that may predict response to anti-PD1 antibody in combination with anti-CTLA4. 
 
3 
 
2.2 
Trial Diagram 
 
3.0 OBJECTIVE(S) & HYPOTHESIS(ES) 
3.1 
Primary Objective(s) & Hypothesis(es) 
(1) Objective: To determine the irRECIST* response rate of pembrolizumab with 
ipilimumab following initial progression to anti-PD1/L1 antibody (or combination not 
containing anti-CTLA4) in subjects with advanced melanoma. 
*For review of irRECIST see Appendix – Section 13.3 
Hypothesis: The combination of pembrolizumab and ipilimumab will induce tumor 
responses in patients who have been previously treated with anti-PD1/L1 antibody  
3.2 
Secondary Objective(s) & Hypothesis(es) 
(1) Objective:  To summarize the progression-free survival (RECIST v1.1 and irRC) of the 
combination following prior treatment with anti-PD1/L1 antibody 
Hypothesis: The combination will lengthen progression-free survival relative to historical 
data for ipilimumab alone.  
(2) Objective:  To assess the safety of the combination following prior treatment with anti-
PD1/L1 antibody 
 
4 
 
Hypothesis: The combination will demonstrate a manageable safety profile in patients who 
have been previously treated with anti-PD1/L1 antibody 
3.3 
Exploratory Objective 
(1) 
Objective: To evaluate changes in the tumor microenvironment and other biospecimens 
before and after adding ipilimumab to pembrolizumab. 
Hypothesis: Changes in the tumor microenvironment will be observed that may correlate 
with a more favorable response to combination immunotherapy. 
4.0 BACKGROUND & RATIONALE 
4.1 
Background 
Refer to the Investigator’s Brochure (IB)/approved labeling for detailed background 
information on PEMBROLIZUMAB. 
4.1.1 Pharmaceutical(s) and Therapeutic Background 
The importance of intact immune surveillance in controlling outgrowth of neoplastic 
transformation has been known for decades.  Accumulating evidence shows a correlation 
between tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in cancer tissue and favorable prognosis in 
various malignancies.  In particular, the presence of CD8+ T-cells and the ratio of CD8+ 
effector T-cells / FoxP3+ regulatory T-cells seems to correlate with improved prognosis and 
long-term survival in many solid tumors. 
The PD-1 receptor-ligand interaction is a major pathway hijacked by tumors to suppress 
immune control.  The normal function of PD-1, expressed on the cell surface of activated T-
cells under healthy conditions, is to down-modulate unwanted or excessive immune responses, 
including autoimmune reactions.  PD-1 (encoded by the gene Pdcd1) is an Ig superfamily 
member related to CD28 and CTLA-4 which has been shown to negatively regulate antigen 
receptor signaling upon engagement of its ligands (PD-L1 and/or PD-L2).  The structure of 
murine PD-1 has been resolved.  PD-1 and family members are type I transmembrane 
glycoproteins containing an Ig Variable-type (V-type) domain responsible for ligand binding 
and a cytoplasmic tail which is responsible for the binding of signaling molecules.  The 
cytoplasmic tail of PD-1 contains 2 tyrosine-based signaling motifs, an immunoreceptor 
tyrosine-based inhibition motif (ITIM) and an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based switch motif 
(ITSM).  Following T-cell stimulation, PD-1 recruits the tyrosine phosphatases SHP-1 and 
SHP-2 to the ITSM motif within its cytoplasmic tail, leading to the dephosphorylation of 
effector molecules such as CD3ζ, PKCθ and ZAP70 which are involved in the CD3 T-cell 
signaling cascade.  The mechanism by which PD-1 down modulates T-cell responses is similar 
to, but distinct from that of CTLA-4 as both molecules regulate an overlapping set of signaling 
proteins.  PD-1 was shown to be expressed on activated lymphocytes including peripheral 
CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells, B-cells, T regs and Natural Killer cells.  Expression has also been 
shown during thymic development on CD4-CD8- (double negative) T-cells as well as subsets 
of macrophages and dendritic cells.  The ligands for PD-1 (PD-L1 and PD-L2) are 
constitutively expressed or can be induced in a variety of cell types, including non-
 
5 
 
hematopoietic tissues as well as in various tumors.  Both ligands are type I transmembrane 
receptors containing both IgV- and IgC-like domains in the extracellular region and contain 
short cytoplasmic regions with no known signaling motifs.  Binding of either PD-1 ligand to 
PD-1 inhibits T-cell activation triggered through the T-cell receptor.  PD-L1 is expressed at 
low levels on various non-hematopoietic tissues, most notably on vascular endothelium, 
whereas PD-L2 protein is only detectably expressed on antigen-presenting cells found in 
lymphoid tissue or chronic inflammatory environments.  PD-L2 is thought to control immune 
T-cell activation in lymphoid organs, whereas PD-L1 serves to dampen unwarranted T-cell 
function in peripheral tissues.  Although healthy organs express little (if any) PD-L1, a variety 
of cancers were demonstrated to express abundant levels of this T-cell inhibitor.  PD-1 has 
been suggested to regulate tumor-specific T-cell expansion in subjects with melanoma (MEL).  
This suggests that the PD-1/PD-L1