primary endpoint of this trial, patients with measurable disease will 
be assessed by standard criteria. For the purposes of this study, patients should be re-evaluated 
prior to each cycle. In addition to a baseline scan, confirmatory scans will also be obtained 
following completion of treatment or last cycle completed.  
Response will be evaluated using the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 
(RECIST) guideline version 1.1. Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as date of entry to 
date of reappearance of disease. Site(s) and date of relapse will be recorded. Recurrent disease 
will be defined as pelvic or distant. Pelvic sites will be specified as vaginal or other, and distant 
sites will be specified as to their anatomic location. Relapse should be confirmed by histological 
or cytological evaluation when possible.  
7.2 Definitions  
Evaluable for toxicity. All patients will be evaluable for toxicity from the time of their first 
treatment. 
Evaluable for objective response. Only those patients who have measurable disease present at 
baseline, have received at least one cycle of therapy, and have had their disease re-evaluated will 
be considered evaluable for response. These patients will have their response classified 
according to the definitions stated below. (Note: Patients who exhibit objective disease 
progression prior to the end of cycle 1 will also be considered evaluable.)  
7.3 Disease Parameters  
Measurable disease. Measurable lesions are defined as those that can be accurately measured in 
at least one dimension (longest diameter to be recorded) as >20 mm with conventional 
techniques (CT, MRI, x-ray) or as >10 mm with spiral CT scan. All tumor measurements must 
be recorded in millimeters (or decimal fractions of centimeters).  
Note: Tumor lesions that are situated in a previously irradiated area might or might not be 
considered measurable.  
Non-measurable disease. All other lesions (or sites of disease), including small lesions (longest 
diameter <20 mm with conventional techniques or <10 mm using spiral CT scan), are considered 
non-measurable disease. Bone lesions, leptomeningeal disease, ascites, pleural/pericardial 
effusions, lymphangitis cutis/pulmonitis, inflammatory breast disease, abdominal masses (not 
followed by CT or MRI), and cystic lesions are all non-measurable.  
Target lesions. All measurable lesions up to a maximum of 5 lesions per organ and 10 lesions in 
total, representative of all involved organs, should be identified as target lesions and recorded 
and measured at baseline. Target lesions should be selected on the basis of their size (lesions 
with the longest diameter) and their suitability for accurate repeated measurements (either by 
imaging techniques or clinically). A sum of the longest diameter (LD) for all target lesions will 
be calculated and reported as the baseline sum LD. The baseline sum LD will be used as 
reference by which to characterize the objective tumor response.  
Non-target lesions. All other lesions (or sites of disease) including any measurable lesions over 
and above the 10 target lesions should be identified as non-target lesions and should also be 
recorded at baseline. Measurements of these lesions are not required, but the presence or absence 
of each should be noted throughout follow-up. 
  
7.4. Methods for Evaluation of Measurable Disease  
All measurements should be taken and recorded in metric notation. All baseline evaluations 
should be performed as closely as possible to the beginning of treatment and never more than 4 
weeks before the beginning of the treatment. The same method of assessment and the same 
technique should be used to characterize each identified and reported lesion at baseline and 
during follow-up. If there is no measurable disease at the beginning of treatment, the same 
method of assessment will apply only to the follow-up period. Imaging-based evaluation is 
preferred to evaluation by clinical examination when both methods have been used to assess the 
antitumor effect of a treatment. Non-measurable disease Patients with completely resected 
disease after primary surgery, or with non-measurable disease, will also be included for 
evaluation of response. In these patients, no new growth of measurable disease detected by any 
of the following method will be considered an adequate method of measurement.  
Clinical lesions Clinical lesions will only be considered measurable when they are superficial 
(e.g., skin nodules and palpable lymph nodes). In the case of skin lesions, documentation by 
color photography, including a ruler to estimate the size of the lesion, is recommended.  
Chest x-ray Lesions on chest x-ray are acceptable as measurable lesions when they are clearly 
defined and surrounded by aerated lung. However, CT is preferable.  Conventional CT and MRI 
These should be performed with cuts of 10 mm or less in slice thickness contiguously. Spiral CT 
should be performed using a 5 mm contiguous reconstruction algorithm. This applies to tumors 
of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis. Head and neck tumors and those of extremities usually require 
specific protocols.  
PET/CT: At present, the low dose or attenuation correction of CT portion of a combined PET-CT 
is not always of optimal diagnostic quality for use with RECIST measurements. The PET portion 
of the CT introduces additional data which may bias an investigator if it is not routine or serially 
performed.  
Ultrasound: Ultrasound is not useful in assessment of lesion size and should not be used as a 
method of measurement. Ultrasound examinations cannot be reproduced in their entirety for 
independent review at later date, and they are operator dependent; it cannot be guaranteed that 
the same technique and measurement will be taken from one assessment to the next. If there is 
concern about radiation exposure at CT, MRI may be used instead.  
Tumor markers Tumor markers alone cannot be used to assess response. If markers are initially 
above the upper normal limit, they must normalize for a patient to be considered in complete 
clinical response. The Gynecologic Cancer Intergroup has developed CA-125 progression 
criteria that have been integrated with objective tumor assessment for use in first-line trials in 
ovarian cancer.  [47] In women with high risk uterine carcinoma, CA-125 levels have been 
shown to correlate with advanced stage and prognosis1, [48, 49].  
Cytology, Histology These techniques can be used to differentiate between partial responses 
(PR) and complete responses (CR) in rare cases (e.g., residual lesions in tumor types, such as 
germ cell tumors, where known residual benign tumors can remain). The cytological 
confirmation of the neoplastic origin of any effusion that appears or worsens during treatment 
when the measurable tumor has met criteria for response or stable disease is mandatory to 
differentiate between response or stable disease (an effusion may be a side effect of the 
treatment) and progressive disease.  
 
7.5 Response Criteria  
7.51 Evaluation of Target Lesions  
Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions  
Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target 
lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD  
Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking 
as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or 
more new lesions  
Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to 
qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started. Or sustained 
non measurable disease, if there is no measurable disease at baseline.  
 
7.53 Evaluation of Non-Target Lesions  
Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor 
marker level  
Note: If tumor markers are initially above the upper normal limit, they must normalize for a 
patient to be considered in complete clinical response.  
Incomplete Response/ Stable Disease (SD): Persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) 
and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits  
Progressive Disease (PD): Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal 
progression of existing non-target lesions.  Although a clear progression of “non-target” lesions 
only is exceptional, the opinion of the treating physician should prevail in such circumstances, 
and the progression status should be confirmed at a later time by the Principal Investigator.  
7.54 Evaluation of Best Overall Response  
The best overall response is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment. The best 
overall response is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease 
progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements 
recorded since the treatment started). The patient's best response assignment will depend on the 
achievement of both measurement and confirmation criteria. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Target 
Lesions  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
New Lesions  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall 
Response  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Best Response 
for this 
Category Also 
Requires:  
CR  
CR  
No  
CR  
>4 wks. 
confirmation  
CR  
Non-CR/Non-
PD  
No  
PR  
>4 wks. 
confirmation  
PR  
Non-PD  
No  
PR  
SD  
Non-PD  
No  
SD  
documented at 
least once >4 
wks. from 
baseline  
PD  
Any  
Yes or No  
PD  
no prior SD, PR 
or CR  
Any  
PD*  
Yes or No  
PD  
Any  
Any  
Yes  
PD  
 
In exceptional circumstances, unequivocal progression in non-target lesions may be accepted 
as disease progression.  
Note: Patients with a global deterioration of health status requiring discontinuation of 
treatment without objective evidence of disease progression at that time should be reported as 
“symptomatic deterioration”. Every effort should be made to document the obje
... [truncated]