STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03089125
Section: ENDPOINTS
Features: pro_qol, pro_endpoints
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

 study protocol. 
Brief Behavioral Intervention for Dyspnea in Patients with Advanced Lung Cancer 
Version 1.19, 11/15/2021 
23 
 
6.0 STATISTICAL ANALYSIS 
 
6.1 Study Endpoints 
 
6.1.1 Primary and Secondary Endpoints 
The primary outcome is comparison of the MMRCDS and CDS severity scores at 8-week 
post-assessment between study arms, controlling for baseline values. 
 
The secondary outcomes will be comparison of quality of life, anxiety, depression, and 
activity level between study groups. To assess quality of life, we will compare the post- 
assessment (8-week) FACT-L scores between study arms, controlling for baseline values. 
To evaluate anxiety and depression symptoms, we will similarly compare the continuous 
scores as well as rates of depression and anxiety symptoms reported per HADS score at 8 
weeks between study arms, controlling for baseline values. To assess activity level, we 
will compare the percentage of time spent immobile but awake on actigraphy and self- 
report weekly leisure-time physical activity score at 8 weeks between study groups, 
controlling for baseline values. 
 
6.2 Sample Size and Power Calculation 
Although we observed a large effect size for the brief behavioral intervention on patient-reported 
dyspnea in our previous trial (Cohen’s d=1.0), we chose to be conservative in estimating the sample 
size to power the proposed RCT given the inclusion of usual care control group, proposed tests of 
mediation and moderation, and rate of attrition observed in our pilot trial (i.e., 16%). Therefore, if 
a total of 200 study participants complete this two-treatment parallel-design study, the probability 
is 80% that the study will detect a treatment difference in the primary and secondary outcomes at 
a two-sided 0.05 significance level (if the true difference between treatments is 0.40 times the 
standard deviation (i.e., the lower bound of a medium effect size). 
 
6.3 Analysis Plan 
 
6.3.1 Aim 1 
Aim 1: To demonstrate the efficacy of the brief behavioral intervention for improving 
dyspnea (primary outcome) in patients with advanced lung cancer. 
Hypothesis 1: Participants with advanced lung cancer who are randomly assigned to 
receive the brief behavioral intervention will report statistically and clinically significant 
improvements in dyspnea (per self-report MMRCDS and CDS) compared to those 
assigned to usual care. 
Analysis: Analyses will begin with descriptive and graphical summaries of the endpoints. 
As the MMRCDS is an ordinal measure, the statistical significance of between-group 
differences in the primary outcome will be assessed first with the Wilcoxon-Rank Sum test 
and then with generalized estimating equations (GEE), with appropriate covariates. The 
CDS is a continuous interval measure, and we will assess between-group differences in 
these scores using general linear models (GLM). All statistical tests will be two-sided with 
an alpha level of .05. For these primary outcomes, we will examine between-group 
differences (i.e., intervention versus control) in MMRCDS and CDS scores at the 8-week 
post-assessment, controlling for baseline values. In the event that the effect of the 
intervention differs by cancer type, use of opiate medication or other patient characteristic, 
we will examine these variables as interaction terms in the GEE and GLM analyses. We 
will also evaluate generalized linear mixed models of the longitudinal data, allowing us to 
Brief Behavioral Intervention for Dyspnea in Patients with Advanced Lung Cancer 
Version 1.19, 11/15/2021 
24 
 
account for dependency among MMRCDS and CDS scores over time and to control for 
demographic and clinical factors, such as disease progression, (as necessary for any 
imbalances in baseline variables) when examining between-group differences in the 
MMRCDS and CDS scores across the multiple study time points (i.e., baseline, 8, 16, 24 
weeks). Finally, we will compute the effect sizes and Reliability Change Index68 to assess 
practical and clinical significance of the differences in the primary and secondary 
outcomes. The GLM model will generate an effect size estimate, which can also be 
calculated by hand (d=Mean change score CBT group - Mean change score control group/SD pooled). Cohen69 
utilizes cutoffs of 0.2 for a small effect, 0.5 a medium effect, and 0.8 for a large effect. 
 
6.3.2 Aim 2 
Aim 2: To demonstrate the efficacy of the brief behavioral intervention for improving 
quality of life, anxiety, depression, and activity level (secondary outcomes) in patients with 
advanced lung cancer. 
Hypothesis 2: Participants with advanced lung cancer who are randomly assigned to 
receive the brief behavioral intervention will experience statistically and clinically 
significant improvements in quality of life (FACT-L), anxiety and depression (HADS), as 
well as activity level (per self-report Godin-Shephard Leisure-Time Physical Activity 
Questionnaire and the percentage of time spent immobile but awake on actigraphy) 
compared to those assigned to usual care. 
Analyses: The statistical significance of between-group differences for the continuous 
secondary outcomes will be assessed with general linear models (GLM