STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03117309
Section: ENDPOINTS
Features: pro_qol, consistency_bridging, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

esponse it patients with prolonged stable disease? 
8) Do gene expression analyses of biopsies in PD1 resistant tumors 
predict the response to ipilimumab/nivolumab combination 
therapy? 
OBJECTIVES 
Primary Objective: 
Determine the PFS rate at 1 year of nivolumab in patients with 
treatment naïve ccRCC based on tumor PD-L1 expression. 
 
Secondary Objectives: 
 Determine the PFS rate at 1 year- by both RECIST and 
irRECIST of nivolumab in patients with treatment naïve 
ccRCC based on the PD1- Blockade Durable Response 
Predictive (PRP) biomarker model developed in the 
DFHCC Kidney Cancer SPORE 
 Determine the objective response rate (CR/PR=ORR), the 
ORR based on PDL1 expression and the PRP model, and 
duration of response for nivolumab in patients with 
treatment naïve ccRCC 
 Determine the response rate of combined nivolumab and 
ipilimumab therapy at the time of nivolumab failure (or lack 
of response at 1 year) 
 Determine the clinical activity (CR, PR and SD) and PFS 
rate at 1 year of nivolumab in patients with treatment naive 
nccRCC 
 Assess the toxicity of nivolumab monotherapy in patients 
with treatment naïve cc or nccRCC 
 
Correlative Objectives: 
 Explore novel potential predictive biomarkers for patients 
with treatment naïve ccRCC and nccRCC 
 Explore the mechanisms of innate and acquired resistance to 
nivolumab therapy in treatment naïve patients with ccRCC 
 Identify biomarkers associated with response to nivolumab 
+ ipilimumab in patients whose disease has not responded 
or progressed on nivolumab monotherapy 
STUDY DESIGN 
The study will be a prospective Phase II trial of nivolumab in 134 
treatment naïve patients with clear cell (cc)RCC and 40 treatment 
naïve patients with non-clear cell (ncc)RCC. Eligible patients with 
tumor tissue available will receive nivolumab 240 mg flat dose IV 
q 2 weeks for 12 weeks then every 3 weeks at a dose of 360 mg IV 
for 12 weeks followed by nivolumab 480 mg IV every 4 weeks.  
Tumor response will be assessed at weeks 12, 18 and 24 and then 
every 12 weeks.  For patients who experience RECIST defined 
PD, but remain clinically asymptomatic with maintenance of 
performance status, a confirmatory scan after 4-6 weeks of 
Clinical Study Protocol 
HCRN GU16-260 
Version Date: 25MAR2021 
Confidential 
Page 6 of 71 
additional therapy is suggested. Patients with persistent PD at 
confirmatory scan will be evaluated for enrollment on Part B of 
this study.  Patients without confirmed PD can continue nivolumab 
therapy.  Patients with symptomatic and radiographic PD will not 
require a confirmatory scan before proceeding to Part B of this 
study. Adverse events will be recorded continuously. 
 
Patients who experience symptomatic or confirmed PD (or have 
best response of SD at 48 weeks) on nivolumab monotherapy will 
be eligible for consideration for Part B (ipilimumab/nivolumab re-
induction). Part B involves the addition of ipilimumab for up to 4 
doses while maintaining nivolumab therapy. Dose of ipilimumab 
will be 1 mg/kg every 3 weeks together with nivolumab changed 
to 3 mg/kg every 3 weeks for up to 4 doses (must complete by 
week 16). Nivolumab will revert to 360 mg every 3 weeks for 12 
weeks followed by nivolumab 480 mg IV every 4 weeks after the 
completion of treatment with ipilimumab (beginning week 13-19 
of Part B).  Patients will continue to be followed with serial 
imaging assessments 12, 18 and 24 weeks after the initiation of 
ipilimumab (Part B) and then every 12 weeks.  The tumor 
measurements at the time of ipilimumab institution will be the new 
baseline.  If unequivocal symptomatic or confirmed new PD (as 
defined above) develops, treatment will be discontinued.  Patients 
for Part B must still meet the eligibility criteria for initial study 
enrollment.  Patients with Grade 3 toxicity on nivolumab 
monotherapy, (excluding endocrine toxicity), serious symptomatic 
disease that in the opinion of the site investigator requires 
immediate use of an alternative treatment approach or continued 
PR/CR will be excluded from enrolling in Part B.  It is estimated 
that roughly half of the patients accrued to the first line treatment 
will go on to enroll in Part B. 
 
KEY 
ELIGIBILITY 
CRITERIA (See 
Section 3 for full 
eligibility criteria) 
Part A 
1. Patients must have advanced RCC (any histology) 
Collecting duct tumors and tumors originating from the 
renal pelvis or upper urinary tract are considered of 
urothelial origin and are excluded from this protocol.   
2. Patients must have at least one measurable site of disease 
that has not been previously irradiated. If the patient has 
had previous radiation to the marker lesion(s), there must 
be evidence of progression since the radiation 
3. Archival tissue of a metastatic lesion obtained within 1 year 
prior to study registration (within 4 weeks preferred) and 
tumor tissue from nephrectomy is required if available.  In 
addition to archival tissue of a metastatic lesion and 
nephrectomy, patients must have at least one site of disease 
Clinical Study Protocol 
HCRN GU16-260 
Version Date: 25MAR2021 
Confidential 
Page 7 of 71 
(not including bone metastases) accessible for biopsy.  If