STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03906071
Section: ENDPOINTS
Features: pro_qol, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, consistency_bridging, non_proportional_hazards, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

 
radiology review would only be conducted until 
completion of the interim analysis for ORR based 
on the change in study design there will only be 
one interim analysis and a final analysis of the 
primary endpoint of overall survival, including a 
futility analysis. The previously planned ORR 
endpoint will remain as a secondary endpoint and 
central radiology review will continue until the 
completion of the study. 
• Per FDAs request, removed language referencing 
modifications to RECIST 1.1 to address potential 
temporary treatment effects including tumor 
necrosis, cavitation, flare response and 
pseudoprogression (per Protocol Administrative 
Letter dated 08 October 2019). 
Section 7.3.4 Electrocardiograms: 
• Removed language that that QTc will be manually 
calculated using the Fridericia’s formula. 
Section 7.4.3.1 Circulating Tumor DNA: 
• Revised to indicate that the ctDNA blood sample is 
optional and not a mandatory assessment. 
Section 8.3.2 Exposure During Pregnancy: 
• Clarified timing around male exposure to 
investigational product for consistency. 
Section 9.1.1 Primary Efficacy Hypothesis and 
Section 9.1.1.1 Sample Size Determination: 
• Revised per revision in the study design from 
adaptive design to a group sequential design with 
one interim analysis and one final analysis, without 
a sample size re-estimation. Approximately 372 
total OS events will be required to detect the 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0 – Phase 3 in NSCLC 
 
Confidential 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) with Nivolumab 
 
Page 9 of 132  
 
 
 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Version Date 
Summary of Changes 
assumed HR at a 2-sided alpha 0.05 and a power of 
85%. Assuming an enrollment duration of 
approximately 25 months and an additional 13 
months of follow-up, a sample size of 
approximately 532 patients is planned to achieve 
the required number of events. 
Removal of Section 9.1.1.2 Interim Analysis based on 
OS for futility and Sample Size Readjustment and 
Section 9.1.2 Secondary Efficacy Hypothesis: 
• Per revision in the study design from adaptive 
design to a group sequential design with one 
interim analysis and one final analysis, without a 
sample size re-estimation. 
Section 9.4.2 Objective Response Rate: 
• Revised per revision in the study design from 
adaptive design to a group sequential design with 
one interim analysis and one final analysis, without 
a sample size re-estimation. 
Section 9.4.3 Clinical Benefit Rate: 
• Updated definition of Clinical Benefit Rate to align 
with RECIST 1.1. guidance on Stable Disease. 
Section 9.4.4 Duration of Response: 
• Updated to include censoring rules. 
Section 9.4.6 Subgroup Analyses: 
• Updated based on changes to the stratification 
factors and added analysis for geographic regions. 
Section 9.7 Interim Analysis: 
• Revised to reflect the change in study design. 
There will only be one interim analysis and a final 
analysis of the primary endpoint of overall 
survival, including a futility analysis. The 
previously planned ORR endpoint will remain as a 
secondary endpoint and central radiology review 
will continue until the completion of the study. 
Section 16 References: 
• Updated accordingly based on changes throughout 
the protocol. 
Appendix 4 Abbreviated Presentation of RECIST 
Version 1.1 Guidelines: 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0 – Phase 3 in NSCLC 
 
Confidential 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) with Nivolumab 
 
Page 10 of 132  
 
 
 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Version Date 
Summary of Changes 
• Per FDAs request, removed language referencing 
modifications to RECIST 1.1 to address potential 
temporary treatment effects including tumor 
necrosis, cavitation, flare response and 
pseudoprogression (per Protocol Administrative 
Letter dated 08 October 2019). 
Addressed clerical errors and made minor 
clarifications. 
Version 3.0 
20 April 2020 
Throughout: 
• Addressed clerical errors and made minor 
clarifications. 
• Deletion of reference to region specific approved 
product labels and replaced with broader non-
region specific reference to approved product 
labels. 
• Addition of sitravatinib malate capsule 
formulation. [Note that the free base capsule 
formulation will remain available in the USA; 
patients who start the study on the free base 
capsule formulation will remain on free base 
capsule formulation for the duration of study 
treatment.] 
• Addition of starting dose and de-escalation 
schedule for sitravatinib malate capsule 
formulation daily dose as supported by the data 
from study 516-006. 
Schedule of Assessments (Table 1):  
• Revision of “Long Term Follow Up” row to 
“Follow-Up” to clarify and confirm that the 
assessment is follow-up and an “X” added to the 
Initial Follow-up column. Removal of reference to 
footnote #17 under the Assessment column as the 
reference is captured in the Long Term Follow-Up 
column. 
Section 1.3.3.1 Sitravatinib Pharmacokinetics: 
• Addition of interim results from Study 516-006, a 
healthy volunteer study evaluating the 
bioavailability and PK of sitravatinib free base and 
sitravatinib malate capsule formulations. 
Section 1.3.3.2 Sitravatinib Clinical Safety: 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0 – Phase 3 in