secondary outcomes. While we anticipate that randomization will balance the distribution 
of measured and unmeasured potential confounders in the two study arms, if this is not the case, we will 
assess the influence of potential confounders as needed. All data will be analyzed with SAS 9.4 (SAS 
Institute Inc., Cary, NC, USA). All tests will be two sided and a P value <0.05 will be required to 
confer significance.  
 
C. 
Subject Selection 
Inclusion Criteria 
• 
Male Age 18 – 50 years and female age < 38 years 
• 
First IVF cycle  
• 
Abnormal semen parameters (at least 1 of the following on 2 semen analysis with at least one 
being in the past 12 months) 
• 
sperm concentration < 10 million/mL  
• 
unprocessed semen analysis with < 10 million motile sperm or processed semen 
analysis with < 3 million motile sperm 
• 
< 2 % normal forms (strict Kruger morphology) 
• 
Female AMH > 0.7 and/or and day 2-4 FSH < 12  
 
Exclusion Criteria 
• 
Donor sperm 
• 
Males with sperm concentration < 200,000/mL 
• 
Utilization of a gestational carrier 
• 
Frozen donor egg 
• 
Female morbid obesity: BMI > 40 
• 
History of recurrent pregnancy loss (≥2 spontaneous abortions) 
• 
Preimplantation genetic testing – (M or SR) Monogenetic disorders or chromosomal 
rearrangement 
• 
The use of non-ejaculated sperm (testicular sperm extraction) 
 
(CCI) Committee on Clinical Investigations 
Page 6 of 9 
 
Study Description – Part B 
 
 
Date:12/11/2019 
 
  
B4. POSSIBLE BENEFITS 
We do not know whether participants in the study will gain any direct benefit from participation. 
However, we hope that this study will provide data to inform how we can improve treatment for future 
patients with male factor infertility. 
 
The potential benefits to the field, as a whole, are enormous. This is a clinical conundrum that is 
encountered daily by infertility physicians and the results of this study have the potential to change 
clinical practice. 
 
B5. 
POSSIBLE RISKS AND ANALYSIS OF RISK/BENEFIT RATIO 
There is no clinical risk to the patient as the procedures followed are standard clinical practice.  
 
EA > 48 hours is routine care. 
 
The risks of EA < 24 hours: 
• 
Lower semen volume 
• 
Less total sperm 
 
As there is no good evidence to guide clinical practice and these patients constitute a large volume of 
our practice, potential benefits far outweigh the potential risks. Given that all patients in the RCT are to 
be treated by ICSI, the number of sperm needed for treatment will not be compromised by EA less than  
24 hours. 
 
B6. 
RECRUITMENT AND CONSENT PROCEDURES 
Recruitment 
This study will utilize an opt-out recruitment method. First-time IVF/ICSI patients will be identified, 
and eligibility will be determined per the study inclusion and exclusion criteria prior to the start of the 
IVF cycle. All eligible participants will be patients of Boston IVF physicians. All Boston IVF 
physicians will have the option to exclude any of their patients from the study.  
 
Eligible participants will have the study introduced by the medical care team (see script for medical 
care team). The medical care team will also have access to general study information (see handout for 
medical care team). Eligible participants will be given information on study details (see study details 
for participants) as well as an ejaculatory calendar/survey (see survey and calendar) that can be used if 
the participant enrolls in the study (see study timeline). The standard of practice for patients at Boston 
IVF is to receive communication via email, access many online documents, and enter the information 
into the online patient portal. To be consistent with this method of patient contact, participants will 
receive a recruitment email from the research team. The medical care team will inform eligible 
participants that they will receive a recruitment email from the research team at 
Bivfresearch@bostonivf.com that explains the study followed by a phone call from the research team to 
see if eligible participants are willing to participate. Eligible participants can choose to reply back to 
Bivfresearch@bostonivf.com to opt-out from receiving any more contact in regards to this 
study. Eligible participants who meet inclusion and exclusion criteria whom do not get information 
regarding the study from the medical care team will also receive a recruitment email. 
 
Consent 
We are requesting a HIPAA waiver for pre-screening and recruitment. For the study intervention, we 
are requesting a waiver of documentation of consent. Participants will be informed in the recruitment 
(CCI) Committee on Clinical Investigations 
Page 7 of 9 
 
Study Description – Part B 
 
 
Date:12/11/2019 
 
email the study is completely voluntary. The day following the recruitment email, eligible participants 
will receive a phone call from a member of the research team to discuss the study and obtain verbal 
consent if the eligible participant is interested in participating in the study (see verbal consent). If the 
participant does not answer, a voicemail will be recorded followed by a second phone call the following 
day. The recruitment and consent process will occur between the pre-IVF period and before stimulation 
day 4 of the IVF cycle. If a participant consents to enrollment, we will make a note in the treatment 
plan for their IVF cycle. Throughout the study, we will let participants know that they have the option 
to stop participating at any time and that their care would not be affected by that decision. 
 
We anticipate that a proportion of participants may desire to crossover to the other assigned EA period. 
If this occurs, participants will be instructed to email or call the research team. These patients would be 
included in the per protocol analysis. The study team will access the patients’ medical records for up to 
24 months following randomization in order to follow the clinical/pregnancy outcomes. These 
outcomes are recorded as part of routine clinical care.  
 
Subject Protection 
This is a completely voluntary study. Participants may withdraw from the study at any point; they also 
may choose to not continue with their randomized EA period. Participants will be advised that if they 
withdraw or choose to cross over to the other treatment arm their clinical care will not be influenced in 
any way.    
 
B7. 
STUDY LOCATION 
Privacy  
Verbal, informed consent will be obtained at a location of their choosing.  
 
Physical Setting 
All patient recruitment will occur at Boston IVF and through email and phone. Participants will be 
notified of their intervention via phone during the randomization process. Participants will complete a 
survey at a location of their choosing or at Boston IVF.  
 
 
B8. 
DATA SECURITY 
All electronic data will be kept in a restricted-access folder on the Boston IVF secure server behind the 
firewall. Any paper generated as a result of this study will be kept in a locked office belonging to a 
member of the study team. 
 
 
B9 
Multi-Site Studies 
 
Is the BIDMC the coordinating site?       ☐ Yes ☐ No  
 
Is the BIDMC PI the lead investigator of the multi-site study?     ☐ Yes ☐ No  
 
 
(CCI) Committee on Clinical Investigations 
Page 8 of 9 
 
Study Description – Part B 
 
 
Date:12/11/2019 
 
B10 
Dissemination of Research Results 
 
We will share the final results of the study to participants who would like the results and provide their 
email in the survey. 
 
Study results will be presented nationally and internationally at conferences and submitted for peer 
review publication. We will acknowledge the patients in future publications. 
 
References: 
1.  
The Practice Committees of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine and Society for 
Assisted Reproductive Technology. Diagnostic evaluation of the infertile male: A committee 
opinion. Fertil Steril [Internet]. 2015;103(3):e18–25. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.fertnstert.2014.12.103 
2.  
Wang C, Swerdloff RS. Limitations of semen analysis as a test of male fertility and anticipated 
needs from newer tests. Fertil Steril [Internet]. 2014;102(6):1502–7. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.fertnstert.2014.10.021 
3.  
World Health Organization. Laboratory manual for the examination and processing of human 
semen. 5th editio. World Health Organization. Geneva; 2010.  
4.  
Barratt CLR, Björndahl L, Menkveld R, Mortimer D. ESHRE special interest group for 
andrology basic semen analysis course: A continued focus on accuracy, quality, efficiency and 
clinical relevance. Hum Reprod. 2011;26(12):3207–12.  
5.  
Jonge C De, Ph D, Lafromboise M, Bosmans E, Pharm D. Multiple pregnancy associated with 
infertility therapy. Fertil Steril. 2004;82(1):S153–7.  
6.  
AlAwlaqi A, Hammadeh ME. Sexual abstinence and sperm quality. Int J Women’s Heal Reprod 
Sci [Internet]. 2017;5(1):11–7. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.15296/ijwhr.2017.03 
7.  
Niederberger C. Re: Analysis of Semen Parameters during 2 Weeks of Daily Ejaculation: A First 
in Humans Study. J Urol. 2017;198(2):240.  
8.  
Bahadur G, Almossawi O, Zeirideen Zaid R, Ilahibuccus A, Al-Habib A, Muneer A, et al. Semen 
characteristics in consecutive ejaculates with short abstinence in subfertile males. Reprod 
Biomed Online [Internet]. 2016;32(3):323–8. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rbmo.2015.11.021 
9.  
Pons I, Cercas R, Villas C, Braña C, Fernández-Shaw S. One abstinence day decreases sperm 
DNA fragmentation in 90 % of selected patients. J Assist Reprod Genet. 2013;30(9):1211–8.  
10.  
Agarwal A, Gupta S, Du Plessis S, Sharma R, Esteves SC, Cirenza C, et al. Abstinence Time and 
Its Impact on Basic and Advanced Semen Parameters. Urology [Internet]. 2016;94:102–10. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.urology.2016.03.059 
11.  
Gosálvez J, González-Martínez M, López-Fernández C, Fernández JL, Sánchez-Martín P. 
Shorter abstinence decreases sperm deoxyribonucleic acid fr
... [truncated]