STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03377023
Section: ENDPOINTS
Features: pro_qol, consistency_bridging, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

tion Under 
Investigation 
Locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC patients who are 
Immunotherapy naïve or with disease progression following 
immunotherapy prior to study enrollment. 
Study Endpoints 
Primary Objectives: 
 
Phase I (Dose Escalation) 
To determine the MTD and RP2D of concurrent administration of 
nivolumab, ipilimumab, and nintedanib. 
 
Phase II (Single Arm Cohorts) 
To confirm whether concurrent administration of nivolumab, 
ipilimumab, and nintedanib will be efficacious in NSCLC patients. 
   (1) Arm A: Newly diagnosed or treatment-naïve patients, with a  
        target ORR of 50%, or 
   (2) Arm B: Patients who have been previously exposed to  
           immunotherapy, such as anti-PD-1, anti-PD-L1 or anti-CTLA- 
        4, with a target ORR of 20%. 
 
Secondary Objectives: 
 
Phase II: 
Determine the overall survival (OS), response rate (RR), Disease 
Control Rate (DCR), Duration of response, and progression-free 
survival (PFS) of patients treated with nivolumab, ipilimumab, and 
nintedanib. 
 
Examine potential predictive and resistance mechanisms in the 
tumors of clinical non- responders. 
Treatment Groups 
• 
Patients must have histologically or cytologically confirmed 
locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC, with at least one 
measurable lesion, with adequate organ and marrow 
function, and with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
(ECOG) performance status of 0-1. 
Clinical Study Protocol 
Drug Substance: Nivolumab, Ipilimumab and Nintedanib MCC #: 19406 
Version: 8 
Date: 12 January 2024 
 
Page 8 of 118 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Subjects in this study will be male or female patients 18 
years of age or older. 
 
• 
Phase I dose-escalation trial of nivolumab plus Ipilimumab 
plus nintedanib in patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic NSCLC who are either: 
o Refractory to immunotherapy (i.e., Patients who 
were previously treated with immunotherapy and 
did not at least achieve stable disease on first 
imaging assessment on immunotherapy 
o Have relapsed disease (i.e. Patients that were 
treated with immunotherapy, achieved at least 
stable disease on first imaging assessment and 
then subsequently developed disease progression) 
o Are newly diagnosed and treatment naïve. 
• 
Phase II non-randomized, parallel assignment trial of 
nivolumab plus ipilimumab plus nintedanib at RP2D in 
patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC. 
o Arm A (treatment naïve group) 
▪ 
Newly diagnosed and treatment naïve 
o Arm B (pre-treated group 
▪ 
Primary refractory to immunotherapy (i.e., 
Patients who were previously treated with 
immunotherapy and did not at least achieve 
stable disease on first imaging assessment 
on immunotherapy 
▪ 
Have relapsed disease (i.e. Patients that 
were treated with immunotherapy, achieved 
at least stable disease on first imaging 
assessment and subsequently developed 
disease progression or relapse) 
Planned sample size 
Phase I: up to 24 
Phase II (Non-randomized) Arm A (treatment naïve): 40 Arm B 
(pre-treated): 40 
Arm A (treatment naïve): 40  
Arm B (pre-treated): 40 
Estimated duration of 
trial 
18 months 
Duration of Participation 
2- 3 years 
Study Sites and 
Location 
H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute 
Clinical Study Protocol 
Drug Substance: Nivolumab, Ipilimumab and Nintedanib MCC #: 19406 
Version: 8 
Date: 12 January 2024 
 
Page 9 of 118 
 
1 
BACKGROUND 
1.1 Introduction - Medical Background 
Lung cancer (LC) is the most common diagnosis of cancer annually and causes more death 
than colorectal, breast, and prostate cancer combined 1. Non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) represents approximately 85% of all LC cases, with most patients presenting with 
stage IIIB or IV. Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) accounts for 15% of lung cancer, with most 
patients presenting with extensive stage. Advanced-stage NSCLC and extensive-Stage 
(ES)-SCLC remain incurable diseases. These late-stage tumors are unresectable, and 
patients have only a 1–5% 5-year survival with chemoresistance playing a major role 2,3. 
Standard therapy for non-squamous cell lung cancer is carboplatin with either pemetrexed 
or paclitaxel in combination with bevacizumab, followed by maintenance bevacizumab or 
pemetrexed. This produces a survival benefit; however, median survival is only 12.3 months. 
Historical data indicate a median progression-free survival (PFS)/time to progression of only 
about 4 months for newly diagnosed, advanced-stage squamous cell lung cancer patients 
treated with platinum doublet chemotherapy 4-8. The results of a phase III randomized 
multicenter trial of nab-paclitaxel plus carboplatin versus paclitaxel and carboplatin in 
patients with advanced NSCLC revealed, by histological stratification, that the combination 
of nab-paclitaxel/carboplatin was superior to paclitaxel/carboplatin, with overall response 
rate (ORR) of 41% versus 24% (P = 0.001), respectively, in patients with squamous cell lung 
cancer, whereas patients with non-squamous histology had no differences in ORR, 26% 
versus 25% (P = 0.808), respectively 7. Unfortunately, despite this progress, there continues 
to be an unmet medical need for more effe