secondary endpoints will be the 
need for mechanical ventilation and/or ECMO at 14 days after the first administered 
dose in comparison to placebo, patient survival at 28 and 60 days, the number of 
patients requiring the dose of open-label clazakizumab, and the ability of 
clazakizumab to reduce the duration of intensive care unit stay and hospital stay, 
in comparison to placebo. 
 
3.2 
Inclusion Criteria 
 
 Age >18 at the time of screening. 
 Subject must be able to understand and provide informed consent or have a 
surrogate decisions maker available to provide consent 
 Subject must be able to comply with the protocol and willing to fully 
participate in the requirements of the study 
 Hospitalized with COVID19+ disease (confirmed by PCR assay from any specimen 
within 72 hours of screening e.g. respiratory, blood, urine, stool, other) 
 Not on mechanical ventilation and/or ECMO 
 Evidence of pulmonary involvement with at least 2 of the following: 
- oxygen saturation at rest in ambient air with SpO2 ≤ 94% 
- tachypnea with resting respiration rate (RR) > 25 breaths/minute 
- PaO2/FiO2 ≤ 300 mmHg 
- Chest imaging (radiograph, CT scan, or lung ultrasound) with abnormalities 
consistent COVID-19 pneumonia  
- 
CRP >35 mg/L 
 
3.3 
Exclusion Criteria 
 
 Previous hypersensitivity or allergic reactions to  clazakizumab 
 Lactating or pregnant females. 
 Known, active: inflammatory bowel disease, untreated diverticulitis or GI 
perforation 
 Known, active infection  
 Subjects with latent TB and who are not receiving treatment.  
 Subjects with active TB 
 
 
Page 13  
 A significantly abnormal screening lab result defined as a WBC < 3.0 X 103/ml, 
a Hgb < 8.0 g/dL, a platelet count < 50 X 103/ml, an SGOT or SGPT > 5X upper 
limit normal 
 Participation in another clinical trial investigating COVID-19 aimed agents 
 
3.4 
Subject Screening and Enrollment  
 
The patients eligible for the study and who may benefit from the administration of 
clazakizumab will be identified by the members of the inpatient team and referred 
to the study team. A member of the study team will then review the medical record 
to assess eligibility (minimum 17 variables assessed). If the patient is eligible, 
the PI or Co-Investigator will discuss the study with the patient.  
 
3.5 
Subject Recruitment 
 
Hospital leadership is closely monitoring the COVID-19 cases and are in 
communication with investigators running COVID-19 trials. Treating physicians of 
COVID-19 patients will be made aware of the research offering. If they have 
capacity to consent for themselves, treating physicians will ask patients if they 
are willing to be approached about research options. Researchers may approach 
potential subjects who indicate they are interested.  
 
Note: patients may be in isolation units. Therefore, this contact may be made over 
the phone into the patient’s room with visualization from the treating physician 
and research from the window outside the room to minimize contact 
 
 
The population of patients being admitted with COVID-19 disease does include a 
large component of older patients with some degree of diminished cognitive 
function. If patients do not have the capacity to consent for themselves, treating 
physicians will work with researchers to identify an appropriate surrogate and 
connect researchers with surrogate decision makers to determine if a research 
option is appropriate for the patient. 
 
The research relates to life-threatening diseases and conditions of the 
participants and holds out the prospect of direct benefit. The consenting co-
investigators (MDs) will determine the patient’s capacity to provide consent. 
Subjects who lack capacity will be given the opportunity to dissent where 
appropriate. An individual who has Power of Attorney or who is otherwise authorized 
to make health care decisions for a potential research subject may not provide 
consent on behalf of the potential subject if the potential subject has the 
cognitive capacity to provide consent for themselves. The research will not enroll 
persons under psychiatric conservatorship or persons on a voluntary or involuntary 
psychiatric hold. The surrogates will not be paid for providing informed consent. 
If a subject should regain capacity during their participation, they will be 
informed of the nature of their participation and given the opportunity to consent 
to continue to participate in the research or refuse to continue to take part in 
the study. The study team will document the surrogate decision makers who are 
involved and available to provide informed consent for the subject, their 
relationship to the subject, and their respective decisions. 
 
REDCap or DocuSign may be used for remote consent of surrogate decision makers, as 
there are restrictions in place that preclude in-person visitors. The remote 
consent process may take place over the phone or via a video visit to allow the 
consent conversation and process, and signature may be obtained either through 
REDCap or DocuSign, or the surrogate may scan/email their signed copy for the 
 
 
Page 14  
investigator to either print and sign, or add an Adobe digital signature. If need 
be, the surrogate could fax their signature page instead of scanning/emailing. 
 
 
3.6 
Informed Consent Considerations 
 
Given limited supplies of personal protective equipment and isolation requirements, 
consent may be provided over the phone and, when feasible, with direct 
visualization through the patient room window or using a video platform to minimize 
entry into the room. A picture of the consent form with patient signature may be 
utilized as documentation of informed consent. The signed consent in these 
circumstances will be photographed and saved electronically. The consenting 
physician and witness (when the patient is a non-English speaker) will sign a 
second full copy of the consent and print/attach the photographed patient’s 
signature page.  
 
Given isolation precaution for this population, potential subjects who have 
capacity to consent and who have access to a smartphone, tablet, or computer with 
them in their room may be provided a link to a digital version of the consent form 
using REDCap or DocuSign to avoid the use of paper, which cannot be removed from 
the containment unit. If the potential subject does not have access to a 
smartphone/online consent form, then a paper copy will be used. While patients may 
be approached soon after their visit and/or admission begins, they can take time to 
consider and discuss participation with others before deciding. All questions will 
be answered by an investigator prior to signing the consent form. If the above 
process to obtain consent with the subject are not possible in an individual case, 
as a last resort, the study team can treat this as a case where the subject cannot 
physically sign and have a witness (e.g., clinical nurse) to the consent discussion 
sign to document that the patient agreed to participate.  This will be a last 
resort option and the study team will make every effort first to get a signature 
from the patient.  The process followed will be fully documented with a consent 
progress note.  
 
For the enrollment of non-English speaking subjects, certified medical interpreters 
will be used with the short form consent. A certified medical interpreter will be 
present (over the phone) to translate the document and interpret the consent 
discussion following IRB policy. A witness to the consent process must sign the 
consent form and short form, but the witness does not need to be fluent in both 
languages. If the interpreter is unable to sign as witness, a chart note should 
document the identity and involvement of the interpreter.  
 
4.