STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: UNKNOWN
Section: ENDPOINTS
Features: immunotherapy, interim_analysis, non_proportional_hazards, fleming_harrington, methodology
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

n the literature as a delayed treatment eﬀect. Some patients may not derive clinical
beneﬁt before their disease progresses while others may derive sustained response or control of their
disease. The primary endpoints often used for conﬁrmatory phase III studies in oncology are time
to event: progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). PFS is deﬁned as time from
randomization until disease progression or death and OS is deﬁned as time from randomization until
death from any cause. The delayed treatment eﬀect may translate to inferior or equal PFS or OS
compared to control treatment in the ﬁrst months of therapy and superior survival thereafter leading
to non-proportionality of hazards in the experimental and control arms of study. Therefore, the
original design based on a proportional hazards assumption will lead to an underpowered study and
hence both the sample size calculation and the analysis methods to be used should be reconsidered
[1].
A weighted version of the log-rank test that incorporates the Fleming and Harrington class of
weights [2], allows tuning the two parameters (ρ, γ) depending on if we expect early, middle or late
delays, is proposed in the literature to increase the power at the end of the trial. However, tuning
these parameters is not straightforward, since a misspeciﬁcation may cause an even larger power
drop with respect to the log-rank test.
The Fleming and Harrington class of weights, along with the estimated delay, can be incorpo-
rated into the sample size calculation in order to maintain the desired power once the treatment
arm diﬀerences start to appear (see [3]).
In this article we make an empirical evaluation of the impact of having a delayed eﬀect on power
and type I error rate in the design of a conﬁrmatory phase III study with an IO agent used in
combination with a standard of care, assuming a range for delay time. We assess the performance
of the weighted log-rank test as an alternative to the log-rank test given it allows weighting of
late diﬀerences and the potential gain power under non-proportional hazards. The evaluation is
made for both group sequential and adaptive group sequential designs with ﬁxed values of the
Fleming and Harrington class of weights. We also give some practical recommendations regarding
the methodology to be used in the presence of delayed eﬀects depending on certain characteristics
of the trial.
The manuscript is organized as follows. In section 2, we describe the weighted log-rank test and
derive derive the sample size calculation formula needed to incorporate the estimated delay and the
Fleming and Harrington class of weights, and we introduce the combination test statistic that will
be necessary when doing sample size re-assessment. In section 3 we brieﬂy describe group sequential
and adaptive group sequential designs, emphasizing two popular methods used to do sample size
re-assessment. In section 4, we describe the simulated example.
2
Methods
In this section we describe the statistical methodology we review in this article. In sections 2.1 and
2.2 we present the weighted log-rank test and derive an optimal sample size when using this test
following [3]. This sample size derivation is presented as an alternative to the Schoenfeld’s formula
[4], which is normally used when calculating the necessary sample size in conﬁrmatory trials. In
section 2.3 we introduce the combination test statistic, which will be necessary when we perform
sample size re-estimation in adaptive group sequential designs.
Let T be a vector that contains the event times, ti, i = 1, 2, . . . , D, between the patients’ enroll-
ment date and the patients’ ﬁnal event date, tD, such that t1 < t2 < · · · < tD. Let the number of
events at time ti be denoted as di, the total number of patients at risk at that time be denoted as
ni, and the eﬀect delay (in months) be denoted as ϵ. As previously described if t < ϵ both survival
curves go in parallel and once t ≥ϵ, the survival curves will start diverging. Hence, we assume the
2
following density functions fj(t), survival functions Sj(t) and hazard functions hj(t) for the control
group (j = 1) and for the experimental group (j = 2):
f1(t) = λ exp(−λt), S1(t) = exp(−λt)
and
h1(t) = λ,
f2(t) =

λ exp(−λt)
cψλ exp(−ψλt) , S2(t) =
 exp(−λt)
c exp(−ψλt)
and
h2(t) =
 λ
if
0 ≤t < ϵ
ψλ
if
t ≥ϵ
,
(1)
where c = exp
h
ϵψλ

1
ψ−1
i
so that
R ∞
0 f2(t)dt = 1. This way, we assume a step function for the
hazard ratio where from time 0 to ϵ, the hazard ratio is equal to 1, and from time ϵ the hazard ratio
is equal to 1/ψ.
In this article we assume that the control group receives the standard of care and the experi-
mental group receives a combination of the standard of care plus the IO agent which causes the
delayed eﬀect. Hence, any observed diﬀerence from time 0 until time ϵ is random. The conclusions
we obtain are only applicable to studies where a similar assumption is made. Otherwise, we cannot
guarantee that from time 0 to time ϵ, both groups have a common survival function.
2.1
Weighted log-rank test
The weighted log-rank test is deﬁned as
Zr =
PD
i=1 ri(d1i −E(d1i))
qPD
i=1 r2
i Var(d1i)
,
(2)
where E(d1i) = n1i ×

di
ni

, Var(