Overview and Timeline 
In the two-year R21 research (see timeline in Section 2.7. Form E), we will conduct rigorous formative 
research and pilot-testing of the Strava Sun (SS) intervention. We will create study protocols in Month 1. 
Outdoor exercisers (Strava users and non-users) will give input on initial concepts for SS in focus groups 
during Months 2-5. An algorithm that predicts time of day and day of week exercising outdoors during high UV 
will be built using retrospective Strava user data in Months 6-8. In Months 9-15, a prototype of the SS database 
will be created and messages and delivery methods tested for usability/acceptability. In Months 16-21, 
feasibility of SS will be tested in a pilot field trial with Strava users. While the many aims are to establish 
methodologic feasibility, analysis of the pilot field trial in Months 22-24 will test the hypothesis that SS will 
improve sun protection. To achieve the ambitious timeline, we will use protocols and methods developed in 
prior research (see Box 2 and 3). All procedures will be approved by the Western Institutional Review Board.  
3C.2. Target Population: Outdoor Exercisers on Strava 
Target population will be users of the Strava social network. Inclusion criteria include a) being 18 or older, b) 
U.S. resident, c) engaging in regular physical activity outdoors (at least 156 times in past year [3 times per 
week]), and d) consenting. All participants except non-Strava users in focus groups will: e) be tenured Strava 
members (for 1+ full calendar year), f) upload at least 13 activites to Strava in past month (i.e., 3 per week), 
and g) give permission for us to access their activity data. Strava has 42 million members worldwide, providing 
a very large user population. All recruiting, besides for focus groups, will occur by invitations through Strava 
(e.g., posting in clubs). Interested users will click a link to a study registration website. We cannot screen 
users based on inclusion criteria on Strava directly, so interested trial participants will complete a screener 
on the study website to determine eligibility. We expect participants to regularly participate in outdoor 
exercise, thus being a high-risk group, and to actively use Strava.  
3C.3. Formative Focus Groups (Specific Aim 1) 
Four focus groups will be conducted with adults who engage in outdoor physical 
activity and use Strava, or not, in Colorado in Months 4-5 (compensation=$50). 
Using Facebook and investigators’ networks, we will recruit a variety of 
exercisers, including those who use Strava for recreation only and for competitive 
training. Though not mutually exclusive, we will attempt to segment groups by 
these uses. Strava users (n=2 focus groups; n=16 total; 8 male, 8 female) will 
discuss a) Strava use, b) exercise behaviors, c) concerns about privacy, d) 
willingness to receive sun safety advice while exercising and e) use of sun 
protection while exercising. To explore interest in sun safety advice by those who 
track physical activity through other means, non-Strava users (n=2 focus groups; 
n=16 total; 8 male, 8 female; matched to Strava users in focus groups on race, 
gender, and activity type) will discuss exercise behavior, privacy concerns, and 
why they do not use Strava. Both groups will discuss time of day/day of week and 
season they exercise outdoors, activity type, sun safety intentions, tanning 
desirability, barriers to sun safety while physically active, SS concept, preferred 
sun safety content/delivery methods, barriers to using SS, utility/acceptability of 
sun safety advice through Strava, potential competitive advantages of sun safety, 
willingness to use the advice while exercising, and privacy concerns. We will not 
segment focus groups by age, but will examine age for differences in tailoring preferences. Transcripts will be 
coded and analyzed using ATLAS.ti.® For this resubmission, we pilot-tested the focus group protocol (Box 1). 
3C.4. Development of Algorithms (Specific Aim 2) 
Dr. Anderson, Dr. Henry, and a computer science graduate student will develop a model that can predict 
impending outdoor physical activity by Strava users during high UV based on their uploaded activity records 
and relevant ambient factors (e.g., weather) and prescribe timely sun safety advice. We will use data-driven 
machine learning analytics to develop an algorithm that forecasts the next outdoor physical activity bout, 
assuming past behaviors and situational contexts predict future behavior.  
3C.4.1. Collect Retrospective Activity Data. Data from 1,000 tenured adult Strava users in the 4 U.S. 
Census regions will be obtained. Eligibility criteria includes: 1+ full calendar year of activities; at least 156 
activities [3 per week] in past year; 18 and older; U.S. resident. Users will consent for their data to be 
accessed and a full calendar year of all Strava data will be procured, including following variables, which are 
all available through the Strava API80: distance, moving time, pace, elapsed time, start time, end time, date, 
type of activity (e.g., run; ride; swim), and gear used. These data will be paired with calendar data (i.e., day of 
week, season, holidays) and weather data from National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration databases 
(i.e., temperature; precipitation; humidity; UV level; wind) to create a multivariate time series of data for each 
user. This data will be subjected to machine learning analytics to develop an algorithm that forecasts the 
likelihood that the user will engage in outdoor activity in near future (duration of reliable prediction will be 
modeled), including the nature of exercise bout (e.g., length of time; UV level). We will recruit users by posting 
in clubs, a popular Strava feature (e.g., Strava Club has over 662,800 members81). We will post in various 
clubs until 1,000 eligible members are enrolled. Participants will receive an authentication screen (see Figure 
1) that identifies data we will access and how it will be used. We will raffle off 10 $50 gift cards as an incentive.
3C.4.2. Use Machine Learning (AI) to Predict Outdoor Activity. Deep learning analytics, a branch
of machine learning that mimics structures of the human brain, are innovative techniques that give more 
flexibility and are typically more accurate than autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) models.82,83 
To predict future outdoor activity, we will use a type of artificial neural network, Recurrent Neural Network 
(RNN), well-suited to temporal prediction,84 along with a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) approach.85 LSTM 
neural network can learn long-term patterns and dependencies and provide stability to prediction algorithm by 
evaluating when it is advantageous to remember or forget previous state, making assessing typically intractable 
problems with very complex data possible. LSTM has been applied to several temporal processing problems in 
public health, including influenza,86 colorectal cancer,87 and fall prevention.88 We will build a machine learning 
model using Keras and TensorFlow in R. First, we will split time-series data into a training set and a validation 
set of users, in an 80/20 split. We will train a LSTM neural network on the training set. Once trained, we will 
layer on auxiliary calendar and weather data to try to reduce the model’s error and maximize predictive power. 
We will compare models using several fit indices: Mean Absolute Percentage Error, Root Mean Squared Error, 
and Root Mean Squared Percentage Error, and plot predicted scores across each model with observed scores to 
determine closest match. We will apply the model with best fit and most accurate prediction to time-series in 
validation set to assess how well it predicts new data.  
3C.4.3. Integrate Predicted Outdoor Activity with Sun Protection Advice. Algorithms from our 
sunZapp mobile app71 (see Box 2) will be employed to tailor sun safety advice to predicted outdoor physical 
activity and personal risk of Strava users. Machine learning model will predict users’ risk of UV-exposure 
(i.e., timing and duration of outdoor exercise). Users’ personal risk (i.e., skin type: hair and eye color and 
skin tanability89) will be collected in SS user profile when first accepted by Strava users. We will use 5-day 
Planner in sunZapp to combine predicted time and duration of outdoor activity bout, forecast UV Index, and 
personal risk to calculate Strava users’ time to sunburn and provide tailored sun safety advice, based on the 
World Health Organization’s (WHO) Global UV Index guidelines.90  To be modified based on results from 
focus groups, we plan to deliver the advice in the evening and morning before the predicted outdoor physical 
activity bout (and during extended bouts) through Strava comments and emails (see 3C.5.). Because Strava 
users get notified by email and in the app, they likely will see the message before their next outdoor activity.  
Box 2: Prior Research on Sun Safety Advice Algorithms 
Under a contract from NCI (HHSN261200900025C), Dr. Buller and KB programmers created algorithms to 
deliver real-time tailored sun safety advice over a mobile app, sunZapp.71 Algorithms first converted hourly 
UV Index forecast for each 0.5° latitude-longitude grid worldwide published daily by National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration to UV radiation level. Using skin sun sensitivity input by the user, it calculated 
time to receive 1 MED of UV (i.e., sunburning dose) to tailor advice on timing of precautions. Algorithms also 
adjusted UV dose for sunscreen application/reapplication based on sun protection factor (SPF) and for use 
of shade. Sun protection advice followed WHO’s UV Index guidelines.90 Amount of sunscreen was adjusted 
for percent of skin uncovered by clothing. In two trials with national adult samples,59,91 sunZapp’s advice 
improved users’ sun safety. In the first trial (n=604 adults from nationwide survey panel)
... [truncated]