Trial Design 
The Stage I Needs Assessment is an observational study with no intervention or randomization. Stage II will 
involve a clinical trial, with the risk disclosure feedback serving as the behavioral intervention. The study will 
use a single-group design. All 10 participant-co-participant dyads (5 Non-Hispanic African-American, 5 Non-
Hispanic White) will receive feedback about the participant’s DAT risk. Outcomes will be measured 
immediately following feedback and at 1- and 6-weeks following risk disclosure. For more information 
regarding design, see Methods section. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3: METHODS 
 
SECTION 3.1 Participants: Inclusion & Exclusion Criteria 
 
3.1.1 Stage I 
 
Participants (those identified as the person who would hypothetically receive DAT risk feedback) will 
be recruited from the Michigan Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center’s University of Michigan Memory 
and Aging Project (UM-MAP), Testing High Definition transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (HD-tDCS) 
as Treatment of Mild Cognitive Impairment Project (STIM), or Dementia in African American Population 
Phenotyping from Potential Elevated Risk (DAPPER) project. 
 
Participants will include up to 60 older adults, age 65+ years who have completed an initial evaluation 
as part of the University of Michigan Memory and Aging Project (UM-MAP), the Testing High Definition 
transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (HD-tDCS) as Treatment of Mild Cognitive Impairment (STIM) 
project, or as part of the Dementia in African American Population Phenotyping from Potential Elevated 
Risk (DAPPER) project. Consistent with the diversity-related goals of this study, 25 of these participants 
will be self-reported Non-Hispanic African-American, and 25 will be self-reported Non-Hispanic White. 
As exploratory analyses will look at the role of cognitive impairment, approximately 50% of the sample 
will be consensus-diagnosed as either cognitive healthy or with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI; single- 
or –multiple domain, amnestic or non-amnestic forms) through their participation in UM-MAP, STIM, or 
DAPPER. Exclusion criteria include current or historical neurologic disorder (e.g., Alzheimer’s dementia 
or other neurodegenerative dementia, Parkinson’s disease, seizure disorder, tumor, multiple sclerosis) 
or neurologic injury (e.g., significant stroke or moderate-severe head injury, defined by loss of 
consciousness > 5 minutes, presence of significant post-traumatic amnesia, or the need for extended 
hospitalization or intervention). Participants with motor symptoms indicative of a neurodegenerative 
etiology other than Alzheimer’s disease will also be excluded. Participants with severe mental illness 
(i.e., bipolar disorder, thought disorder, psychosis) or anyone deemed to meet criteria for current 
substance use disorder will be ineligible for participation in this study. 
 
Co-Participants (those who are currently serving as a caregiver to the participant, or would 
hypothetically serve in this role should the need arise) include up to 60 adults, age 18+ years. Co-
participants must be cognitively healthy, as defined by consensus diagnosis if they are also enrolled in 
UM-MAP, STIM, or DAPPER, by neuropsychological evaluation within 12 months of study participation, 
or by cognitive screening (MoCA) prior to study enrollment. As it is critical that co-participants can 
reliably and validly report on their perspectives or thoughts about their respective participants, co-
participants must have known the participant for ≥5 years and have at least weekly phone or in-person 
contact with the participant.  
 
3.1.2 Stage II 
 
Participants (those identified as the person to receive DAT risk feedback) will include a subset of 10 
older adults (65+) drawn from the Stage I Needs Assessment, all of whom have available 
neuropsychological performance information, magnetic resonance imaging (structural) information, 
positron emission tomography (PET) amyloid and/or tau information, and apolipoprotein e genetic 
information already collected as part of UM-MAP, STIM, or DAPPER. Participants will meet all of the 
inclusion/exclusion criteria applicable for Stage I. Additionally, participants must be negative for mood 
or anxiety diagnosis and negative on mood measures prior to enrollment in Stage II. Participants must 
also be currently followed by a medical provider (primary care physician, geriatrician, family doctor). 
These additional inclusion criteria minimize the likelihood of significant psychological risks following 
feedback, and facilitate clinical coordination of care between study staff and clinical providers in the 
event that significant psychological distress does occur. 
 
Co-Participants (those who are currently serving as a caregiver to the participant, or would 
hypothetically serve in this role should the need arise) include 10 adults, age 18+ years. Similarly, 
participants must meet criteria from the Stage I Needs Assessment. Additionally, if the participant has 
an active legally authorized representative (LAR) or power of attorney (POA) for medical decisions 
and/or research, that individual must serve in the role of co-participant, and must provide 
documentation of this legal designation prior to enrollment of the dyad in the study. If the participant 
does not have an enacted LAR/POA, any individual meeting the above criteria can serve as the co-
participant. 
 
All study-related activities will occur at the University of Michigan through virtual visits. 
 
SECTION 3.2 Recruitment Strategy 
 
3.2.1 Stage I: Participants will be recruited from UM-MAP, STIM, or DAPPER. The MADC recruits 
participants from several sources including the MADC Memory Disorders clinic, community screening 
events, and external referrals. UM-MAP, STIM, or DAPPER participants interested in research are 
maintained in an IRB-approved database, which is available by request to the PI and her study team.  
 
3.2.2 Stage II: Participants will be recruited to Stage II through invitation, only. The study team will 
review dyads who complete the Stage I Needs Assessment, screen these cases for any interim 
changes that might impact eligibility of the participant or co-participant, and contact dyads to determine 
interest in engaging in the second stage of the study. Specifically, following Stage I, the study team will 
contact the parent studies (UM-MAP, STIM, and DAPPER) via the MADRC ‘cohort discovery’ data 
request pipeline to confirm who among the list of interested Stage I participants have (a) annual 
research evaluation information with resulting cognitively normal or mild cognitive impairment 
diagnosis, and (b) at least one of the following: PET amyloid and tau biomarker data, apolipoprotein E 
genotype, or Neuroquant volumetric neuroimaging from MRI. Of note, none of these biomarker data will 
actually be accessed by the SHARE(D) research team for recruitment; the actual biomarker and 
personal health data will be requested only following informed consent from the participant and co-
participant.  
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3.3 Procedures 
 
3.3.1 Stage I – for a visual timeline 
of Stage I Activities, see Figure 1. 
 
 
Session Description: 
 
After telephone screening for 
eligibility, participants will be 
scheduled for a study session 
(ideally in parallel) within 
approximately one week as 
availability allows. This session will 
be 90-to-120-minutes, one-on-one 
with a study team member.  
 
In March 2020, the global Covid-19 
pandemic resulted in research 
ramp-down and restrictions on in-
person research visits. To protect 
the health of our participants, 
particularly given their vulnerable 
status as older adults, we 
determined that it would be best not 
to continue in-person research 
visits, and to instead adapt this 
protocol to allow for virtual visits. 
Therefore, during telephone 
screening, participants will be 
offered the opportunity to complete 
the Stage I session as a video or 
phone visit. Interested participants 
will be asked whether they have 
adequate access to and familiarity 
with a laptop, tablet, or computer to 
engage in a video visit session in 
which they will complete 
questionnaires and interviews using 
video-conferencing software. 
Participants who do not have 
access to this technology or do not feel comfortable completing the visit over video will be offered the 
opportunity to complete the session over the phone. Those that decline phone or video visit, but remain 
interested in the study will be deferred for scheduling until a time that it is deemed safe by research 
administration for participants to engage in in-person research. 
 
In-Person Sessions: At the initiation of the session, participants/co-participants will complete written 
informed consent and the decision-making tool to ensure that they are cognitively capable of doing so. 
Additional screening criteria will then be reviewed. Co-participants without recent neuropsychological or 
cognitive evaluation (within 6 months) will also be screened using the MoCA.  
 
Video Conferencing Sessions: Participants and Co-Participants who are interested in engaging in a 
video visit will be asked about their access to and comfort with technology for the session prior to 
scheduling. Participants and Co-Participants must utilize a desktop or laptop computer, or a tablet with 
a screen at least 9.7 inches in diagonal width to ensure that they are able to view the questions 
completely. Additionally, participants/co-participants must have access to a stable, secure internet 
connection (not public wi-fi) and a quiet, private space where they will be uninterrupted for the duration 
Figure XX. Stage I Timeline of Activities 
Figure 1. 
Stage I 
Timeline of 
Activities 
of the 2-hour appointment. Participants and Co-Participants who meet the above criteria will be sent 
separate links 
... [truncated]