Study Design and Methods 
 
Methods: 
This project will involve two Phases: phase one in which mindful breathing by itself without any other 
device will be tested to make sure that is acceptable to patients and make a difference comparing to the 
usual protocol in use right now. Phase two will include a particular device that will guide the mindful 
breathing practice that we think will be more intuitive to practice and guide the mindful breathing and 
that device will be tested once we know that the acceptance to the mindful breathing practice, from phase 
one,  is appropriate. 
 
Phase 1:  A total of 70 adults diagnosed with COPD will be enrolled in the study.  Half of the participants will 
be randomized to receive the home-based PR with the Pursed Lipped Breathing Application (intervention) and 
half will receive the home-based PR (control).  Randomization will take place in a REDCap database and will 
be in equal proportion. 
 
Figure 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 15 
 
 
Phase 2: A total of 70 adults diagnosed with COPD will be enrolled in the study.  Half of the participants will 
be randomized to receive the home-based PR with the mindful breathing module which consists of the Pursed 
Lipped Breathing Application and the Spire Health Tags (intervention) and half will receive the home-based PR 
(control).     Randomization will be take place in a REDCap database and will be in equal proportion.   
 
Both groups entail one week of baseline where the participants wear an ActiGraph activity tracker and answer 
questionnaires.  Baseline is followed by 12 weeks of home-based PR plus health coaching.   The Intervention 
group also has the mindful breathing module loaded on the Android tablet.  Both groups will also complete 
questionnaires and wear an ActiGraph activity monitor at 3 and 6 months. 
 
Please see Figure 3 for a diagram of the intervention and Figure 4 for a diagram of the control scheme. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 
Intervention  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 15 
 
 
 
 
Questionnaires:   
Quality of Life will be assessed three times (baseline, 3 and 6 months) by the Medical Research Council 
(mMCR) questionnaire, the Chronic Respiratory Disease Questionnaire (CRQ), the Self-Management Ability 
Scale (SMAS30)  and the Mindful Attention and Awareness Scale (MAAS).  The questionnaires take about 20 
minutes to complete. 
At baseline additional health data will be collected from the medical record (chart review)  to complete the 
Charlson comorbidity index, including lung function, demographics, living condition (living alone or not), 
GOLD stage, and comorbidities. 
 
ActiGraph:  
Physical activity will be measured three times (baseline, 3 and 6 months) by the ActiGraph activity monitor.  
The ActiGraph activity monitor has tri-axial accelerometers and will be wrist worn for seven days.  See Figure 
5.  Important measures to be analyzed are daily number of steps,  activity counts, minutes per day spent in daily 
physical activities of at least moderate intensity, and sedentary time (<2 metabolic equivalents).
 
Figure 4 
Control 
Figure 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 15 
 
 
The questionnaires and Act Graphs will be mailed to the participant with pre-paid shipping materials to send 
back.   
 
Health Coaching: 
All participants will receive a weekly coaching call to discuss their rehabilitation and health process.  The calls 
are structured using motivational interviewing.   The coach will review with the patient the data from the health 
coach system.  Collaboratively, goals for rehabilitation for the following week will be set, based on information 
gathered and the patients’ personal preferences.  Each call lasts about 20 minutes.  All calls will be taped to 
ensure compliance with the protocol.   
 
 
Subject Information 
 
 
Target accrual: 140 
 
Subject population (children, adults, groups):  Adults 40 years of age or older 
 
Inclusion Criteria:  
• Clinical diagnosis of COPD 
• At least 10 pack years of smoking 
 
 
Exclusion Criteria:   
• Unable to do mild exercise (orthopedic-neurologic problems or confined to a bed) 
• Unable to follow commands (cognitive impairment) 
• Have a high likelihood of being lost to follow-up (active alcohol or drug abuse)   
• Live in an area that does not have cellular service (Verizon) 
 
Potential participants will have the option of meeting a study coordinator in person (if they are on campus for a 
clinical appointment), meeting via Video Anywhere through Epic, or meeting over the phone.  If the patient 
desires, their consent can be digitally obtained and documented through PTRAX.  The patient also has the 
option of receiving the consent via mail and mailing back the consent in a provided postage paid envelope.  
Documentation of informed consent/HIPAA authorization will involve the use of the 
Research Participant Tracking (PTrax) Digital Signature Capture technology for research 
informed consent/HIPAA authorization forms. This is an institutionally approved process 
for documenting consent/HIPAA authorization only while the subject, and/or the subject’s 
representative, is in the physical presence of the person authorized to obtain 
consent/HIPAA authorization. The study team may print a copy of the signed consent 
form/HIPAA authorization form for the subject or their representative. The consent 
form/HIPAA authorization form will also be available to the subject via the patient 
portal. Note: If the subject or their representative prefers not to use the Digital 
Signature Capture technology, the study team will provide a paper consent form/HIPAA 
authorization form for signature. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
Review of medical records, images, specimens  
 
 
  The study involves data that exist at the time of IRB submission and data that will be generated after IRB 
submission. Include this activity in the Methods section.  
The study plans to conduct a retrospective chart review and ask subjects to complete a questionnaire.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data Analysis