Overview of N-glycosylation, a step-by-step process. Any defect in these steps could lead to a CDG. (The sugars 
are depicted with standard colored symbols). 
this study will also aid in biomarker development and correlation with clinical features. The following rationale for 
this research underscores its significance for CDG. 
More than half of human proteins are glycosylated.1 The glycome defined as the sugar chains (glycans) that an 
organism makes, is ~102–104 times larger than the proteome.2 Given this complexity, it is not surprising that about 
2% of our genes encode for proteins known to participate in glycosylation reactions.2, 3  
A congenital disorder of glycosylation (CDG) is a monogenic disorder in which proper modification of an organic 
molecule with a sugar or sugar structure is disrupted. PMM2-CDG, the first CDG that was clinically described in 
1980 had its underlying genetic and enzymatic defect determined in the mid-late 1990s. The field has been 
expanding rapidly with the advent of genomic sequencing, with many novel CDG identified in the last few years.3 
Although ~130 genetic disorders are associated with a dysfunction of one of these proteins, CDG are rare both 
individually and as a group. The most common type of CDG involves N-glycosylation defects (Figure 1).  
Worldwide, PMM2-CDG (CDG-Ia) remains the most common CDG with ~900 cases reported.3 PMM2-CDG 
prevalence may be as high as 1 in 20,000 individuals in some populations.4 The next most common subtype is 
ALG6-CDG (CDG-Ic), with 50 cases5. Congenital disorders of galactosylation are one of the largest subgroup, 
including more then 70 reported cases of PGM1-CDG and SLC35A2-CDG)(Radenkovic, in press). PMM2-CDG 
and galactosylation defects are typically detectable in blood and show an abnormal N-glycan pattern. 
Since so many biologic functions depend upon correct protein and lipid glycosylation, clinical CDG manifestations 
are widely variable within and among subtypes and across the lifespan. The clinical findings in affected individuals 
reflect glycosylation’s role in the embryology and biology of many organ systems. Clinical findings may include 
developmental delay/intellectual disability with abnormalities in brain MRI, hypotonia, failure to thrive or growth 
impairment, 
hepatopathy, 
coagulopathy, 
immunodeficie
ncy, protein 
losing 
enteropathy, 
osteopenia, 
skeletal 
dysplasias, 
renal 
abnormalities, 
functional 
and/or 
anatomic eye 
involvement, endocrinopathies, and peripheral neuropathy. Some CDG present with only tissue-specific symptoms 
such as SEC23B-dyserythropoietic anemia or Leukocyte Adhesion Deficiency Type II.6  
Of the known 137 glycan-synthesis disorders we have potential therapies for only 8 disorders and not all current 
therapies are fully effective. Clinical trials have not validated these treatments for safety and efficacy. MPI-CDG has 
been treated with oral mannose.7 In SLC35C1-CDG, some patients respond to oral fucose supplementation. This 
treatment is only effective for the typical recurrent infections with hyperleukocytosis and does not correct the 
neurological issues of these patients.6 PIGM-CDG, the mutation described in the only published case so far, causes 
histone hypoacetylation at the PIGM promoter. Butyrate controls the seizures.8 PGM1, a critical enzyme for the 
conversion of glucose-1-phosphate to glucose-6-phosphate, is at the crossroads of the glycogen, glucose and 
galactose pathway. PGM1 deficiency is treatable with D-galactose, alleviating the hypoglycemia, coagulopathy, 
and endocrinopathy seen in this disorder,9, 10 although not the cardiomyopathy. The glycosylation defect CAD-CDG 
has been treated with uridine.11, 12 Magnesium can improve MAGT1-CDG. Manganese and D-galactose have been 
used to treat TMEM165-CDG, whereas SLC35A2-CDG has been treated with D-galactose. From the group of 
Minimal Risk Protocol Template [IRB 10429.010] 
 
Effective: 9/20/2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 6 
 
disorders of de-glycosylation preclinical trials suggested positive effect of GlcNAc treatment in NGLY1 
deficiency. 
Given the rarity and novelty of CDG, the geographic spread of affected individuals, the broad clinical 
spectrum, the limited retrospective attempts at natural history studies (focused on one disorder or limited to one site), 
there is a significant knowledge gap regarding the progression and clinical variation in this group of disorders. Even 
for PMM2-CDG, preliminary data from an unpublished study emphasized that there is a need for prospective natural 
history studies to validate and expand on retrospective, limited results. This gap impedes the development of novel 
targeted therapeutics since there is no clear outcome measure for clinical trials, and it will be difficult to determine 
efficacy of a therapy over natural history.