Study Design – Overview, Methods, Procedures 
 
(CCI) Committee on Clinical Investigations 
Page 3 of 9 
 
Study Description – Part B 
 
 
Date:12/11/2019 
 
Overview 
This will be a randomized controlled trial to compare semen parameters following EA for either more 
than 48 hours (routine care) or less than 24 hours among male factor infertility patients who receive 
IVF/ICSI. 
 
Methods 
Study participation will not influence any element of IVF treatment and all patients will be receiving 
the standard of care at Boston IVF. For participants who meet eligibility criteria and provide informed 
verbal consent, baseline demographic data will be obtained from their medical record including for 
example; age, race, education level, height, weight, baseline semen analysis, testosterone level, follicle 
stimulating hormone (FSH) level. Demographic data on the female partner will include parameters such 
as: age, race, education level, height, weight, gravidity, parity, anti-mullerian hormone (AMH) level, 
and day 3 FSH. 
 
Eligible participants will have the study introduced by the medical care team. Eligible participants will 
be given information on study details (see study details for participants) as well as an ejaculatory 
calendar/survey (see survey and calendar) that can be used if the participant enrolls in the study (see 
study timeline). The medical care team will inform eligible participants that they will receive a 
recruitment email from the research team at Bivfresearch@bostonivf.com followed by a phone call 
from the research team to see if eligible participants are willing to participate (see recruitment email). 
Eligible participants who meet inclusion and exclusion criteria whom do not get information regarding 
the study from the medical care team will also receive a recruitment email. If so, the research member 
will call the eligible participant to obtain verbal consent to enroll in the study (see verbal consent). If 
the participant does not answer, a voicemail will be recorded followed by a second phone call the 
following day. The recruitment email and verbal consent will occur between the pre-IVF period and 
before stimulation day 4 of the IVF cycle. If a participant consents to enrollment, we will make a note 
in the treatment plan for their cycle. Enrolled participants will receive a phone call from a member of 
the research team during stimulation day 6 to 8 to randomize the participant to EA > 48 hours (routine 
care) or EA < 24 hours (see randomization call).  If the participant does not answer, a voicemail will be 
recorded followed by a second phone call the following day.  
 
The semen sample provided on day of oocyte retrieval will be analyzed with a basic and advanced 
semen panel. Any remaining samples will be discarded per routine practice. Prior to providing the 
semen sample, participants turn in the completed survey/ejaculation history calendar to a member of the 
research team. Blank copies will be available for participants the day of egg retrieval if needed.  
 
There is no clinical risk to your IVF cycle as the procedures followed are standard clinical 
practice. Study participation will not influence any element of the IVF treatment except for EA 
counseling. Currently there is no set protocol on how EA counseling is performed. Counseling on EA 
varies among the medical care teams at Boston IVF as some patients may or may not receive explicit 
EA instructions. Patients may be counseled by the medical care team with recommendations to abstain 
for > 48 hours at the time of their consult. All patients in this study are using ICSI to fertilize eggs and 
the number of sperm needed for treatment will not be compromised by ejaculatory abstinence < 24 
hours. Participants who crossover to the alternate treatment arm will continue their participation in the 
study so that we can collect cycle outcome data. IVF stimulation protocols will be according to standard 
practice. ICSI and embryology practice will follow standard practice. Selection of embryos will be 
based on the current embryology laboratory selection protocols or by preimplantation genetic testing for 
aneuploidy (PGT-A). The number of embryos transferred will be based on the usual American Society 
of Reproductive Medicine guidelines. Any unused embryos will be disposed of or cryopreserved per 
(CCI) Committee on Clinical Investigations 
Page 4 of 9 
 
Study Description – Part B 
 
 
Date:12/11/2019 
 
standard clinical protocols.   
 
Outcomes 
Primary: Total motile sperm (motility x concentration x volume) 
 
Secondary: 
Clinical data from the IVF cycle randomized to intervention or control condition, will include but not 
be limited to the following: fertilization rate; blastocyst rate; number of morphologically normal 
blastocysts; number of euploid and aneuploid embryos (if preimplantation genetic testing-aneuploidy 
[PGT-A] performed); number of embryos transferred; implantation rate; biochemical pregnancy rate 
(defined as positive beta-hCG but no gestational sac visualized); clinical pregnancy rate (defined as 
confirmation of gestational sac on ultrasound); ongoing pregnancy rate (defined as confirmation of a 
gestational sac with at least one fetal pole with a fetal heartbeat); live birth rate (defined as delivery > 
23 weeks gestation); Cumulative pregnancy rate; Miscarriage rate; Multiple pregnancy, defined as 
twins or higher-order gestations 
 
Semen characteristics will be examined in relation to:  
Changes in semen analysis from baseline diagnostic sample 
An advanced semen analysis panel  
Time from last ejaculation to oocyte retrieval 
 
All data that is collected for the trial is clinical data that would be collected and stored in the electronic 
medical record as part of routine clinical care. In addition to collecting outcome data from this initial 
IVF cycle, we will collect data regarding subsequent IVF cycles and outcomes for any of the frozen 
embryos created but not transferred in this cycle. 
 
Procedure 
Intervention 
Participants will be randomized to EA more than 48 hours (routine care) or less than 24 hours from the 
day of their partner’s oocyte retrieval.  
 
Randomization 
We will use computer-generated block randomization in REDCap to randomize participants in a 1:1 
ratio to the EA period more than 48 hours (routine care) or less than 24 hours. Randomization will be 
stratified by whether the patients receive PGT-A. Research staff will call participants on stimulation 
day 6 to 8 to notify participants which treatment arm they were randomized to. The participant can 
withdraw from the study at any time if desired or will have an opportunity to not continue with the 
treatment arm they were randomized to. We anticipate that most of the crossovers will occur due to 
participants wishing to be in the alternate EA period or not being able to produce a sample in the 
window assigned.  
 
The purpose of this study is to examine semen parameters with IVF/ICSI when male factor infertility 
patients abstain from ejaculation more than 48 hours (routine care) or less than 24 hours. Information 
from this study would allow us to provide evidence-based recommendations to future patients who need 
IVF/ICSI.  
 
B. Statistical Considerations