Study Design:  
Single-arm study involving five (5) subjects undergoing 6 90-minute sessions of Pulsed 
Electromagnetic Therapy. All patients received the same treatment. Harnesses were placed on the 
head, wrists, and ankles of the body to conduct the electromagnetic frequencies. Patients were 
encouraged to rest and relax whilst the therapy was conducted, as it does not require any tasks by 
the patient. Patients were required to complete a questionnaire before and after the trial. This 
questionnaire enquired about the different symptoms related to PTSD and Trauma, and asked 
patients to rate their symptoms on a scale. These questionnaires would form the foundation of the 
study’s findings, as it would give a clear comparison of symptoms before and after the trial.  
All aspects of the trial were exempt from a U.K. ethics committee board review because the trial was 
a non-invasive method of treatment, did not collect and tissue or fluid samples and the device is CE-
marked and had been used in other trials previously approved and published on Clinical Trials.gov. 
Documents were provided on clinicaltrials.gov as evidence of this exemption.  
All patients were from the inclusion criteria, and any patients exhibiting cases from our exclusion list 
were rejected from the pilot study. Patients were recruited through the National Centre for 
Electromagnetic Therapy social media pages, including Facebook, Instagram, and www.ncet.co.uk.  
 
Expected Outcomes:  
It is expected that all patients will see an improvement in their symptoms relating to PTSD and 
Trauma. Previous studies into the benefits of PEMF therapy have indicated a significant 
improvement in both physical and mental health conditions. Whilst we do not expect a complete 
recovery, we expect to see a marginal improvement from all patients. There is no expectation of any 
adverse outcomes or reactions to the PEMF therapy, apart from headaches or dizziness. All patients 
have access to Kasey Phifer during the clinical trial.  
 
Reason For Withdrawal:  
A subject may be discontinued from the clinical trial if:  
• 
They fail to arrive for their scheduled appointment 
• 
They show symptoms of severe mental or physical illness 
• 
They wished to withdraw from the trial 
• 
Screening Failure 
• 
They pose a threat to the Lead Investigator  
• 
They refuse to co-operate with the dissemination of the clinical trial 
• 
Subject death  
All patients are free to withdraw from the study at any time, for any reason, specified or unspecified, 
and without prejudice. Reasonable attempts will be made to ensure the patient stays on the clinical 
trial, but they shall not be coerced. The reason for withdrawal may be noted for clinical trial 
purposes but shall remain anonymous. Whilst withdrawal is possible, it should be avoided as much 
as reasonably possible.  
This study may be temporarily or permanently suspended if there is a reasonable cause. Written 
documentation will be provided for the withdrawal of the study if this case arises. Circumstances 
that may warrant a termination of the trial include:  
• 
Unacceptable or unexpected risk to the patients or staff 
• 
Insufficient compliance to protocol requirements  
• 
Determination of futility  
Studies may resume when deemed appropriate by the Lead Investigator.  
 
Clinical Trial Outline  
 
Prior to Trial – Selected patients are required to fill out questionnaire provided to them by NCET. 
Week 1 – All patients receive two hours’ worth of PEMF treatment across two separate sessions.  
Week 2 – All patients receive two hours’ worth of PEMF treatment across two separate sessions. 
Week 3 – All patients receive two hours’ worth of PEMF treatment across two separate sessions.  
Week 4 – All patients are required to fill out questionnaire provided to them by NCET. Dissemination 
of study and findings published.  
 
Whilst the clinical trial is short in length, the ability for patients to get in contact with NCET is always 
available. Contact can be maintained between the patient and company regarding their lives after 
the trial. Information provided by patients after the trial has finished will be considered in the trials’ 
findings.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results & Findings 
 
Prior to the Trial  
Once participants had been screened and approved for clinical trial study, they were required to fill 
out a questionnaire that sought to establish the specific issues that they were experiencing due to 
PTSD and Trauma. These responses were weighted as an average and are provided below. 
For clarification, a rating of one (1) on the scale indicates a very severe case of a specific symptom, 
five (5) means a frequent feeling of a symptom, and ten (10) indicates that the symptom is not 
experienced at all. A weighted average score has been chosen as a foundation for our results, to 
compare them more accurately before and after the trial. However, specific notes and observations 
shall be included where needed.  
Statements were also used, whereupon a patient would respond with either Daily (3 or more times a 
week), Weekly (2 to 3 times a week), Monthly (3 to 4 times a month), or Rarely (Once every 3 
months or longer).  
 
Question 
Average Score 
Have you 
experienced or 
witnessed a life-
changing event 
that caused 
intense fear, 
hopelessness or 
horror? 
All patients recorded ‘Yes’.  
Have you 
experienced either 
repeating dreams, 
flashbacks, or 
intense 
physical/emotional 
stress that relate 
back to the 
Daily – 1 Patient  
Monthly – 2 Patients  
Rarely – 2 Patients  
traumatic 
event(s)? 
Do you avoid 
thoughts, feelings, 
actions, 
conversations, or 
people related to 
the event? 
Daily – 1 Patient 
Weekly – 2 Patients 
Monthly – 1 Patient  
Rarely – 1 Patient  
Have you felt 
detached or 
negative towards 
yourself or others 
since the 
traumatic event(s) 
happened? 
Daily – 4 Patients 
Monthly – 1 Patient  
Do you have 
problems 
sleeping? 
Daily – 1 Patient 
Weekly – 2 Patients 
Rarely – 2 Patients 
Do you become 
increasingly 
irritable, angry, or 
engage in self-
destructive 
behaviour? 
Daily – 1 Patient 
Monthly – 3 Patients  
Rarely – 1 Patient  
How long have 
your symptoms 
persisted? 
Longer Than Three Years – 3 Patients 
Longer Than A Year – 1 Patient 
8-12 Months – 1 Patient 
Do you 
experience 
heightened 
version of anxiety, 
sensitivity, or 
depression? 
Daily – 3 Patients 
Weekly – 1 Patient 
Monthly – 1 Patient 
Rate Your Quality 
of Life  
Average Score: 6 
Rate The Severity 
of Depression  
 Average Score: 6.4 
Rate How Difficult 
It Is To Fall 
Asleep 
Average Score: 5.6 
Rate The Severity 
of Flashbacks 
Relating to a 
Traumatic Event 
Average Score: 5 
Rate The Severity 
of Headaches or 
‘Brain Fog’  
Average Score: 4.6 
Rate The Severity 
of Fatigue  
Average Score: 5 
Rate The Severity 
of Anger or 
Irritable Outbursts  
Average Score: 4.8 
Rate How Difficult 
It Is To Complete 
Daily Tasks  
Average Score: 5.8 
Rate The Severity 
of Your Anxiety 
Average Score: 6.2 
Rate Your Level 
of Overall 
Happiness 
Average Score: 6.2 
Rate Your Level 
of Satisfaction and 
Fulfilment In Life  
Average Score: 5.8 
 
As illustrated in the above table, symptoms varied among the patients. As an overall judgement, all 
patients were experiencing mild to severe symptoms related to PTSD and Trauma.  
It is important to note that three of the patients had received medication for their symptoms prior 
to the study, but none were currently receiving treatment during the clinical trial. There was an 
overwhelming consensus that prescription medication from the NHS was not beneficial in helping 
their symptoms. One patient felt ‘failed’ by the therapy they had received, whilst others noted that 
the medication exacerbated symptoms.  
Regarding sleeping, the patients were given an option to describe their sleeping situations. All 
patients reported a problem with sleeping. These causes ranged from harmful internal dialogue and 
flashbacks to insomnia and difficulty gaining a restful sleep.  
These initial results will be used in the ‘After Trial Results’ section, where the averages will be 
compared, and conclusion can be drawn. Further observations will be available below the initial 
results to accord for any individual cases requiring attention, or further clarification on certain 
results.  
 
During The Trial  
 
There were no changes to the initial plan for the clinical trial. All patients attended their arranged 
appointments and reported no negative side effects to the treatment.  
The Lead Practitioner noted valuable verbal feedback during sessions with each patient.  
Patient One:  
• 
Patient slept very well following their first session but felt a slight headache after the initial 
session that was combatted with paracetamol.  
• 
Patient continued to have increased, deeper sleep throughout the trial 
• 
Patient had increased stress due to worry over lost family pet during the third session 
• 
Patient’s PTSD was due to previous assault, and stress and hypersensitivity were main 
symptoms. Improved sleep led to reduced stress and patient felt more in control.  
• 
Patient experienced a panic attack between sessions 3 and 4 but remarked that they were 
better equipped to deal with it rather than a ‘fight-or-flight’ response as previously done. 
Patient felt their ability to deal with anxiety had greatly improved.  
Patient One improved significantly during the clinical trial. Whilst their main symptoms were 
related to stress, anxiety, and hypersensitivity, the PEMF therapy helped them achieve better 
sleep which in turn aided them in better tackling symptoms related to PTSD.  
 
Patient Two: 
• 
Patient was familiar with PEMF therapy, although hadn’t experienced it before. Reported a 
great alleviating in ‘Brain Fog’ symptoms after first session. This improvement continued 
throughout the clinical trial.  
• 
Improved sleep after the third session. Trauma was related to a vehicle acciden
... [truncated]