STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03906071
Section: STUDY_DESIGN
Features: pro_qol, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, consistency_bridging, non_proportional_hazards, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

Official Title of Study: 
A Randomized Phase 3 Study of Sitravatinib in Combination with Nivolumab Versus Docetaxel in Patients 
with Advanced Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer with Disease Progression On or After 
Platinum-Based Chemotherapy and Checkpoint Inhibitor Therapy (SAPPHIRE) 
 
PROTOCOL(S) 516-005 
 
NCT Number: NCT03906071 
  
Document Date (Date in which document was last revised): 07 October 2021 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0 – Phase 3 in NSCLC 
 
Confidential 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) with Nivolumab 
 
Page 1 of 132  
 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CLINICAL RESEARCH PROTOCOL 
DRUG(S): 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) 
Nivolumab (OPDIVO®) 
Docetaxel
STUDY NUMBER: 
516-005 
PROTOCOL TITLE: 
A Randomized Phase 3 Study of Sitravatinib in 
Combination with Nivolumab Versus Docetaxel in 
Patients with Advanced Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell 
Lung Cancer with Disease Progression On or After 
Platinum-Based Chemotherapy and Checkpoint Inhibitor 
Therapy (SAPPHIRE) 
IND NUMBER: 
141664 
Eudra CT NUMBER: 
2019-001043-41 
SPONSOR: 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
3545 Cray Court 
San Diego, California, 92121, USA 
ORIGINAL PROTOCOL 
DATE: 
21 November 2018 
VERSION NUMBER: 
V5.0 
VERSION DATE: 
07 October 2021 
 
CONFIDENTIALITY STATEMENT 
This document contains confidential information and/or trade secrets of Mirati Therapeutics, 
Inc. As such, this document is protected from unauthorized disclosure or use by confidentiality 
agreement(s) and/or is exempt from public disclosure pursuant to applicable FDA and foreign 
counterpart regulations. 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0 – Phase 3 in NSCLC 
 
Confidential 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) with Nivolumab 
 
Page 2 of 132  
 
 
 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DOCUMENT HISTORY 
Document 
Version Date 
Summary of Changes 
Original Protocol, 
Version 1.0 
21 November 2018 
NA 
Version 2.0 
30 January 2020 
Title: 
• Protocol title updated to reflect the patient 
population to be enrolled in the study. 
Study Summary: 
• Revised the target population to include patients in 
the third-line treatment setting, post-CIT in 
addition to patients in the second line treatment 
setting based on feedback from investigators, 
review of treatment and clinical trial landscape and 
data from our ongoing Phase 2 study (MRTX-500). 
• Added background information on the mOS with 
docetaxel in the third-line treatment setting, post-
CIT as per the expanded patient population to be 
enrolled in the study. 
• Replaced stratification factor of ‘duration of 
previous CIT treatment (< 9 months vs ≥ 9 
months)’ with ‘prior lines of therapy in the 
advanced setting (1 vs 2)’ to align with the change 
in eligibility criteria allowing patients to enroll 
after 1st and 2nd line treatment. 
• Revised statistical considerations from an adaptive 
sample size re-estimation design to a group 
sequential design with one interim OS analysis for 
efficacy and futility and removed the interim ORR 
analysis resulting in a decrease in total number of 
patients for the study. 
• Added an exploratory objective to characterize the 
immunogenicity of nivolumab in combination with 
sitravatinib. 
Schedule of Assessments (Table 1): 
• Added clarification around the screening window. 
• Added clarification around the allowable window 
for Day 1 visits beyond Cycle 1 Day 1. 
• Added clarification around the Investigator 
Evaluation of Progression on most recent CIT 
regimen. 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0 – Phase 3 in NSCLC 
 
Confidential 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) with Nivolumab 
 
Page 3 of 132  
 
 
 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Version Date 
Summary of Changes 
• Added clarification on timepoint for Nivolumab 
ADA sample collection in the table and footnote 
#10 (per Protocol Administrative Letter dated 08 
October 2019). 
• Added clarification on allowable window around 
Cycle 3 Day 1 ECHO or MUGA. 
• Added clarification on the collection timepoint for 
PRO Questionnaires in the table and footnote #13 
(per Protocol Administrative Letter dated 08 
October 2019). 
• Footnote #1: clarified timing of treatment start in 
relation to date of randomization. 
• Footnote #3: revised to indicate that the ctDNA 
blood sample is optional and not a mandatory 
assessment. 
• Footnote #7 and #8: clarified allowable window 
around the timing of safety lab assessments. 
• Footnote #12: clarified the timing of on-study 
disease evaluations to be calculated based on the 
calendar from the date of randomization (per 
Protocol Administrative Letter dated 08 October 
2019). 
• Footnote #14: revised the reporting period for 
serious and non-serious immune-related AEs, the 
reporting period for irAES will continue until at 
least 100 days after the last administration of 
nivolumab or until subsequent immunotherapy is 
administered, whichever occurs earlier. 
Schedule of PK sample collections for Sitravatinib and 
triplicate ECG Assessments (Table 2) and 
Section 5.2.3 Nivolumab administration: 
• Footnote #1: clarified timing of the PK and ECG 
assessments in relation to dosing with sitravatinib 
and nivolumab on days when these are required. 
Section 1.1.3 Second- and Third-Line Chemotherapy 
for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: 
• Added background information on the mOS with 
docetaxel in the third-line treatment setting, post-
CIT as per the expanded patient population to be 
enrolled in the study. 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0 – Phase 3 in NSCLC 
 
Confidential 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) with Nivolumab 
 
Page 4 of 132  
 
 
 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Version Date 
Summary of Changes 
Section 1.3.1 Sitravatinib Drug Substance: 
• Removed the word “salt” from the sitravatinib 
malate name. 
Sections 1.3.2 Non-clinical Data, 1.3.3 Sitravatinib 
Clinical Experience: 
• Added guidance, throughout, that the Investigator’s 
Brochure should be referenced for current data. 
Section 1.3.3.3 Sitravatinib Clinical Efficacy: 
• Added update on preliminary efficacy data in the 
ongoing Phase 2 study (MRTX-500) which 
continues to demonstrate a robust median overall 
survival in a similar patient population to the 
population being enrolled into this study. 
Section 1.3.3.4 Sitravatinib Capsule Formulation Study 
and 5.1.1 Sitravatinib Formulation, packaging and 
Storage: 
• Removed specifics around the sitravatinib capsule 
properties, these will be added to the Pharmacy 
Manual. 
Section 1.3.3.5 Sitravatinib Dosing with Food: 
• Simplified the details around the food effect sub-
study being conducted in the ongoing Phase 2 
study (MRTX-500). 
Section 1.4 Nivolumab: 
• Added guidance, throughout protocol, that the 
current OPDIVO USPI and SmPC should be 
referenced for current data. 
Section 1.6 Docetaxel: 
• Added guidance, throughout protocol, that the 
current TAXOTERE USPI and SmPC should be 
referenced for current data. 
• Added guidance that TAXOTERE or generic 
equivalent (docetaxel) are acceptable for use in this 
study. 
Section 2.1.3 Exploratory Objective and 2.1.6 
Exploratory Endpoints: 
• Addition of exploratory objective to characterize 
the immunogenicity of nivolumab in combination 
with sitravatinib. 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0 – Phase 3 in NSCLC 
 
Confidential 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) with Nivolumab 
 
Page 5 of 132  
 
 
 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Version Date 
Summary of Changes 
Section 3 Study Design: 
• Revised the target population to include patients in 
the third-line treatment setting, post-CIT in 
addition to patients in the second line treatment 
setting based on feedback from investigators, 
review of treatment and clinical trial landscape and 
data from the ongoing Phase 2 study (MRTX-500). 
• Replaced stratification factor of ‘duration of 
previous CIT treatment (< 9 months vs ≥ 9 
months)’ with ‘prior lines of therapy in the 
advanced setting (1 vs 2)’ to align with the change 
in eligibility criteria allowing patients to enroll 
after 1st and 2nd line treatment. 
• Revised statistical considerations from an adaptive 
sample size re-estimation design to a group 
sequential design with one interim OS analysis for 
efficacy and futility and removed the interim ORR 
analysis resulting in a decrease in total number of 
patients for the study. 
Section 4.1 Inclusion Criteria: 
• Inclusion Criterion #1: added staging for metastatic 
and locally advanced disease for clarity. 
• Inclusion Criterion #2: Revised to include patients 
that have received 2 lines of treatment in the 
advanced disease setting and guidance around 
acceptable first and second lines of treatment in 
order to meet eligibility. 
• Inclusion Criterion #3 and #4: clarified refences to 
the CIT are to the most recent CIT prior to coming 
on study and duration of prior CIT. 
Section 4.2 Exclusion Criteria: 
• Throughout: clarified that timing for certain 
exclusions is in reference to date of randomization 
and not from treatment start for consistency. 
• Exclusion Criterion #9: Revised to clarify 
exceptions to current or prior use of 
immunosuppressive medications for non-immune 
conditions within 28 days of randomization. 
• Exclusion Criterion #11: Revised to clarify that 
treatment with antacids and /or H2 antagonist are 
permitted. 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0 – Phase 3 in NSCLC 
 
Confidential 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) with Nivolumab 
 
Page 6 of 132  
 
 
 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Version Date 
Summary of Changes 
• Exclusion Criterion #16: Revised to add 
timeframes after each sub-criterion. 
• Exclusion Criterion #23: Revised to align with 
OPDIVO USPI guidance that breastfeeding or 
planning to breastfeed within 5 months following 
the last dose of nivolumab is exclusionary. 
Section 4.4 Randomization: 
• Revised to actual process being followed. 
Section 5.1.4 Sitravatinib Dose Modification or 
Discontinuation: 
• Removed language that indicated that following 
sitravatinib dose reduction and control of adverse 
event, re-challenge at a higher sitravatinib dose is 
permitted at the discretion of the Investigator. 
Section 5.2 Nivolumab Study Drug: 
• Revised language to indicate that nivolumab will 
be provided by Sponsor. 
Section 5.3 Docetaxel Study Drug: 
• Revised language to add that Docetaxel will be 
provided by Sponsor depending on local country 
requirements. 
• Added guidance that TAXOTERE or generic 
equivalent (docetaxel) are acceptable for use in this 
study. 
Section 5.3.3 Docetaxel Administration and 5.3.4 
Docetaxel Dose Modification: 
• Added language to clarify that the initial dose 
(Cycle 1) of docetaxel should remain at 75 mg/m2. 
Section 5.4.1.1 General Management of Non-
Hematological Toxicities:  
• Clarified guidance for sitravatinib dose 
management: 
− 
Symptomatic Grade 2 sitravatinib-related 
non-hematological adverse events occurring 
any time on study, particularly early in 
treatment (e.g., Cycle 1 Day 15 or Cycle 2 
Day 1), are recommended to be managed 
using dose reduction to the next lower dose 
level, per the reduction schedule outlined in 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0 – Phase 3 in NSCLC 
 
Confidential 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) with Nivolumab 
 
Page 7 of 132  
 
 
 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Version Date 
Summary of Changes 
Table 3, rather than continued dosing until 
interruption becomes necessary. 
− 
Treatment with sitravatinib may continue 
without dose modification (e.g., interruption 
or reduction) in cases of asymptomatic 
amylase and/or lipase increases in the 
absence of other clinical evidence of 
pancreatitis (eg, symptoms, electrolyte 
abnormalities, radiographic changes) at the 
investigator’s discretion. 
− 
Table 5 and related footnotes were updated. 
Section 5.4.4 Management of Hy’s Law Cases: 
• Added clarifications with regards to when 
sitravatinib and nivolumab should be permanently 
discontinued and steroids administered. 
Section 5.6.1 Concomitant Medication(s): 
• Gastric Acid Medications with Sitravatinib: 
Revised to clarify that treatment with antacids and 
/or H2 antagonist are permitted and to provide 
guidance with regards to timing of antacids and /or 
H2 antagonist administration in relation to 
sitravatinib dosing. 
• Supportive Care/Palliative Care: added language to 
indicate that bisphosphonates (eg, zoledronic acid) 
and RANK-L inhibitors (eg, denosumab) should be 
initiated prior to first dose of study therapy. 
• Vaccines: added language to clarify that live 
attenuated vaccines are to be avoided within 100 
days of nivolumab dosing. 
Section 5.6.3 Other Anticancer or Experimental 
Therapy: 
• Added language indicating that certain ongoing 
hormonal therapies taken to prevent recurrence of a 
malignancy not under study (eg, 
tamoxifen/aromatase inhibitor for breast cancer) 
may be permitted after discussion with and 
agreement of the Sponsor’s Medical Monitor. 
Sections 6.3 End of Treatment Assessments, 8.4.1 
Reporting Period and 9.5.1 Adverse Events: 
• Added language with regards to the reporting 
period for serious and non-serious immune-related 
AEs, the reporting period for irAES will continue 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0 – Phase 3 in NSCLC 
 
Confidential 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) with Nivolumab 
 
Page 8 of 132  
 
 
 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document 
Version Date 
Summary of Changes 
until at least 100 days after the last administration 
of nivolumab or until subsequent immunotherapy 
is administered, whichever occurs earlier. 
Section 7.1 Documentation of Disease Progression On 
or After Prior Chemotherapy and Checkpoint Inhibitor 
Therapy: 
• Clarified that refences to the CIT are to the most 
recent CIT prior to coming on study. 
Section 7.2.2 Radiographic Disease Assessments: 
• Removed language indicating that central 
radiology review would only be conducted until 
completion of the interim analysis for ORR based 
on the change in study design there will only be 
one interim analysis and a final analysis of the 
primary endpoint of overall survival, including a 
futility analysis. The previously planned ORR 
endpoint will remain as a secondary endpoint and 
central radiology review will continue until the 
completion of the study. 
• Per FDAs request, removed language referencing 
modifications to RECIST 1.1 to address potential 
temporary treatment effects including tumor 
necrosis, cavitation, flare response and 
pseudoprogression (per Protocol Administrative 
Letter dated 08 October 2019). 
Section 7.3.4 Electrocardiograms: 
• Removed language that that QTc will be manually 
calculated using the Fridericia’s formula. 
Section 7.4.3.1 Circulating Tumor DNA: 
• Revised to indicate that the ctDNA blood sample is 
optional and not a mandatory assessment. 
Section 8.3.2 Exposure During Pregnancy: 
• Clarified timing around male exposure to 
investigational product for consistency. 
Section 9.1.1 Primary Efficacy Hypothesis and 
Section 9.1.1.1 Sample Size Determination: 
• Revised per revision in the study design from 
adaptive design to a group sequential design with 
one