Overview of study design and methods 
To achieve the proposed project aims, we will conduct two rigorous studies. For Study I (Aim 1), we will 
utilize qualitative methods to collect data on smoking and cessation motivation among patients with cancers 
not widely known to be related to smoking. This will assist in the development of a motivational intervention. In 
Study II (Aim 2), we will assess feasibility and acceptability of the intervention.  
 
 
D.2.1. Study I (Specific Aim 1): Intervention development (months 1-11). The goal is to create a clear, 
usable, understandable, and acceptable intervention. We will follow a 3-phase process:  
Phase 1 (months 1-5): In-depth interviews will be used to identify key information for the content of the 
intervention. In-depth interviews were selected (vs focus groups) because smoking is a sensitive topic for 
cancer patients due to perceived stigma [43], and ease for scheduling. Based on lessons learned during our 
previous research [44], we anticipate conducting 15-20 hour-long in-depth interviews. Following the principle of 
theoretical saturation [45], interviews will stop once we find we are not receiving new information, so the final 
number will vary depending on the information obtained. Using a semi-structured interview guide, we will 
assess topics such as: knowledge about the association between smoking and their cancer type, benefits/ 
barriers of quitting smoking, perceived risks of continued smoking, cessation motivation, preferred intervention 
delivery (mail vs. directly from a provider), level of specificity needed (e.g., a gynecological cancer pamphlet vs 
ovarian cancer specific pamphlet), and perspectives on how to maximize the impact of the intervention by 
cancer type. Interviews will be transcribed and the content analyzed. The data will be coded and key themes 
will be identified by two trained, team members. Texts will be analyzed for frequency (times the comment was 
mentioned), extensivity (how many participants made the comment), intensity (how strongly the comments 
were expressed), and specificity (how clearly focused was the comment). NVivo (Scientific Software 
Development) will assist in organization and analysis of the data. Agreement between coders will be evaluated 
using a Kappa statistic and codes will be refined until at least 85% agreement is achieved. 
Phase 2 (months 6-7): Development of the intervention content. Information from Phase 1 will guide 
intervention content development, as with previous interventions developed by our team [31, 44, 46]. This will 
be synthesized with existing literature to create messages designed to boost motivation to quit smoking. 
Following the TMM, messages will be framed to increase perception of personal risk and outcome 
expectancies (e.g., relating smoking to the etiology of the patient’s cancer type, if applicable: “When a person 
takes a puff from a cigarette, the smoke goes straight to the lungs. Then, the toxins in the smoke travel in the 
body and affect other organs. When tobacco smoke reaches the colon and rectum, it harms the DNA. This 
causes a change in healthy cells that can become cancer. However, it is not too late to quit smoking. If you 
have colorectal cancer and you smoke, quitting will help you in many ways.” Additionally, smoking cessation 
will be tied to successful cancer treatment and outcomes with statistics specific for each cancer type (e.g., 
“High oxygen levels are vital to make radiation treatment work well. Smoking drops the oxygen in your blood. 
This makes it harder for radiation to work. Thus, quitting smoking will help your cancer treatment to be more 
effective”). Messages will be designed to prompt strong affective or emotional responses (e.g., with disease-
specific vignettes collected during Phase 1), and to redefine self-concept or social role (e.g., discussing 
life/social changes associated with each cancer type, and with smoking cessation). Because we will create 
separate brief intervention materials for each cancer type, during this phase we will also learn how to best 
personalize the intervention by cancer type. Thus, we will emphasize in each booklet/pamphlet specific 
statistics and risks of continued smoking for each cancer (e.g., treatment related complications), and personal 
 PI: Martínez, Úrsula 
7 
vignettes depicting patient scenarios with that cancer diagnosis. For example, the booklet/pamphlet for 
colorectal cancer patients will describe the link between smoking and colorectal cancer, the importance of 
quitting smoking prior to surgery (including colectomy or colostomy), chemotherapy, or radiation therapy, with 
as much colorectal-cancer specificity as possible. Per National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) 
guidelines, it is important to educate cancer patients about the benefits of quitting smoking to increase their 
motivation to quit smoking [9, 31]. Our aim is to focus each booklet/pamphlet on the past and future smoking-
related risks associated with the specific cancer, with a mix of risks/benefits framed messages designed to 
maximize the TM and motivate cessation. Thus, we will create a different booklet/pamphlet for each of the five 
cancer types, written at a 5-6th grade reading level on the Flesch-Kincaid scale, and including graphics to 
ensure comprehension among a population with diverse age, education, and literacy levels. During this phase, 
we will work with our experienced graphic designer to ensure that the materials will be visually attractive and 
appealing. 
 
 
Phase 3 (months 8-11): Learner Verification of intervention materials. The initial draft of the intervention 
will undergo learner verification to assess for suitability. Similar to our previous studies [28, 31], in this process, 
materials will be presented to 20-25 cancer patients, (a purposeful sampling approach will be used to capture 
viewpoints from patients diagnosed with the various cancer types; 4-5 patients will be recruited for each cancer 
type) to analyze reactions to the intervention regarding tone, messaging style, etc. We will assess 
acceptability, attraction, understanding, self-efficacy, and persuasion [47]. During a one hour interview, we will 
ask questions such as, “What is the general message?”, “Is there anything that bothers you?”, “What do you 
think about the length?” We will use an iterative process, and modifications will be made along the way.  
 
 
 
D.2.1.1. Inclusion Criteria for all phases of Study I. We will recruit individuals who are smokers and recently 
(i.e., within prior 6 months) received a diagnosis of breast, colorectal, gynecological, skin melanoma, or 
bladder cancer. We will consider smokers to be individuals who report having smoked at least one cigarette in 
the past 30 days, in accordance with NCCN Guidelines [48] and as utilized by previous studies [8, 49]. Other 
inclusion criteria are: a) able to read/write English; b) able to give informed consent; c) not currently enrolled in 
a smoking cessation program. Patients with distant metastases will be excluded, as participation may be 
burdensome. Male patients diagnosed with breast cancer will be excluded as lifetime risk for breast cancer in 
men is very low (less than 1% of breast cancer worldwide).  
 
 
D.2.1.2. Recruitment procedures and compensation. Similar to our prior studies, we will use an existing 
electronic system to generate a report of recent diagnosed patients reporting current smoking. In coordination 
with clinical staff, potential participants will be called over the phone or approached during medical visits and 
informed about the aims of the study. If interested, they will be screened, and those meeting inclusion criteria 
will be invited to participate. After obtaining informed consent, the research assistant will then escort the 
participant to a room where the interview will take place. If necessary, the interview will be scheduled for 
another day or conducted over the phone. Our team has been successful recruiting cancer patients using 
these methods, obtaining high participation rates (80-86%) with cancer patients [29, 50]. Participants will be 
compensated $20 in cash if the study is conducted in person, or with a gift card or electronic gift card for the 
same value if it is completed over the phone. 
 
 
D.2.1.3. Assessment and measures. For descriptive purposes, participants in Study I will complete a 
baseline assessment that will include the measures reported below in section D.2.3. 
 
 
D.2.2. Study II (Specific Aim 2). Assessment of feasibility and acceptability (months 12-21). We will 
evaluate patients’ satisfaction (acceptability), and if the intervention is feasible and adequate for a future 
efficacy trial (e.g., screening, recruitment, completion of assessment measures, and follow-up). After 
completing a baseline questionnaire, 10 participants from each cancer type (n=50) will receive a 
booklet/pamphlet corresponding to their specific cancer type. They will also be given an insert describing the 
smoking cessation services offered at MCC, with contact information for the tobacco treatment specialist (TTS) 
(a professional trained to help tobacco users). The insert will also include a link (both as a text-based address 
and as a QR code, to facilitate use) to a website where participants will find information for the Quitline and 
existing smoking cessation websites (e.g., smokefree.gov, tobaccofreeflorida.com, cancer.org/healthy/stay-
 PI: Martínez, Úrsula 
8 
away-from-tobacco/guide-quitting-smoking). Each insert will have a personal code that will allow us to track 
who visited the study site. One week and one month later, participants will be contacted and assessed on 
whether they read the booklet/pamphlet (demand), change in the TMM elements (risk perception, emotional 
response, and self-image), and their motivation to quit smoking (preliminary efficacy). We will also assess their 
satisfaction wit
... [truncated]