Study Design and Research Methods  
i. Research Design and General Methodological Approach  
We propose a single-site, double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical trial of lavender 
aromatherapy versus inert oil placebo for patient satisfaction in adult women having a first 
trimester outpatient surgical abortion before 10 weeks and 0 days gestation. Our study will 
be conducted at the University of Colorado Comprehensive Women’s Health Center, a 
freestanding outpatient family planning clinic. All study endpoints will be collected on the 
date of procedure and thus no follow-up will be necessary. In order to be able to show that 
lavender aromatherapy is an effective adjunct to standard treatment, we will recruit 200 
women (100 to receive the intervention of lavender aromatherapy and 100 to receive a 
placebo).  
For purposes of masking, all patients enrolled in the study will be required to wear a cloth 
face covering over their nose and mouth during their procedure to minimize diffusion of the 
aromatic scent in the procedure room. All participants will receive standard pre-operative 
analgesia with 600mg Ibuprofen PO and local anesthetic with a standardized 20 cc cervical 
block (10cc of 1% lidocaine without epinephrine mixed with 10cc of 0.9% normal saline). 
The State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI )and a pre-procedure patient survey will be filled 
out prior to the procedure. A visual analog scale (VAS) for maximum procedure pain will be 
filled out immediately after procedure completion (as defined as removal of the speculum). 
Lastly, the Iowa Satisfaction with Anesthesia Scale (ISAS) and a post-procedure patient 
survey will be administered 15 minutes after the completion of the procedure. Surgical 
abortion procedures will proceed per usual clinical practice.  
ii. Subject Recruitment and Allocation  
This study will be performed at the University of Colorado Women’s Comprehensive Health 
Center (CWHC) - a free-standing family planning clinic providing pregnancy termination 
services up to 22 weeks gestational age. Procedures at CWHC are performed by OBGYN 
residents, Complex Family Planning fellows, and faculty.  
Eligibility for participation will be determined by abortion clinic physician providers, all of 
whom are study team members,at initial encounter. Women presenting for abortion will be 
screened by clinic physician providers for eligibility based on chart review, dating 
ultrasound, and patient preference for pain control (IV anesthesia or no) following initial 
provider interview. If determined to be eligible for participation and interested, women will 
meet with trained research staff study team members who will explain the study as well as 
the risks and benefits of participation.  
CWHC performs approximately 20-25 surgical abortions less than 10 weeks 0 days 
gestational age without intravenous sedation each month . We assume 80% enrollment 
and a drop our rate of 10%. Based on this information, we approximate that recruitment will 
be completed in 12 months.  
  
D. Description, Risks and Justification of Procedures and Data Collection Tools: 
Protocol Template 
Page 5 
CF-146, Effective 7/10/11 
 
i. Admission Procedure  
Patients presenting for abortion procedure up to 10 weeks 0 days gestation will be screen 
by an abortion clinic physician provider, all of whom are study members, for eligibility 
criteria, only after medical chart has been reviewed, ultrasound has been performed, and 
participant has signed appropriate clinical consent forms for the surgical abortion 
procedure. If eligible, the woman will be approached for possible participation by a 
research assistant in a private clinic room. If interested and willing to participate, the patient 
will undergo consent for study enrollment. All participants determined to be eligible and 
approached will be documented per CONSORT guidelines.  
Following enrollment, participants will be instructed on how to self-administer the 
aromatherapy. Participants will fill out a pre-procedure survey with questions related to 
prior use and feelings regarding aromatherapy and other CAM techniques. Additionally, 
they will fill out the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), which is a 40-item self-reported 
questionnaire to measure their current state of anxiety and anxiety proneness. The STAI 
takes approximately 10 minutes to complete. Pre-procedure temperature, pulse and blood 
pressure will be recorded.  
Study randomization to lavender aromatherapy or placebo will occur just prior to the 
initiation of the abortion procedure. A permutated block stratified