Preliminary Analysis 
 
 
To assess for possible differences between the conditions at baseline, demographic 
characteristics (age, gender, sexual orientation, race, year in school, Hispanic ethnicity), and 
baseline symptom measures (BDI-FS, PHQ-9, DASS-SF, PANAS, BADS-SF) will be compared. 
Chi-square analysis will be used for categorical measures, and independent samples t-tests will 
be used for continuous measures. Finally, the number of missing daily survey responses would 
be compared across conditions using an independent samples t-test, and the proportion of 
missing mid-treatment, post-treatment, and follow-up survey responses would be compared 
across conditions using Chi-square tests. 
 
Outcome Analysis 
 
 
Linear mixed effects models will be used to model change in symptom measures (BDI-
FS, PHQ-9, DASS-SF, PANAS, BADS-SF) from baseline to each of the mid-treatment, post-
treatment, and follow-up timepoints. Models will include random effects for the intercept and 
fixed effects for the intercept, condition (BA vs. SM), three time contrasts (baseline vs. each 
subsequent timepoint), and interactions between condition and each of the time contrasts. This 
model will allow for outcome variable scores to be estimated at each individual time point for 
each group. Terms of primary interest include the main effect of treatment, which indicates the 
difference in symptoms across conditions on average across all time points, as well as the 
interaction between time and condition, which indicates the difference in symptom change across 
conditions. The main effect of treatment in these models will be interpreted to indicate the 
overall effect of the intervention on the outcomes, as recommended by Mallinckrodt et al. 
(2008). Additionally, the omnibus treatment-by-time interaction will be interpreted to indicate 
the overall difference across conditions in symptom change from baseline. Additionally, planned 
analyses include examining the time-point specific interactions between treatment condition and 
time (i.e., interaction of treatment condition and each of baseline-to-mid-treatment time, 
baseline-to-post-treatment time, and baseline-to-follow-up time) and examining the simple effect 
of treatment at each time-point after baseline (mid-treatment, post-treatment, follow-up). These 
analyses will allow indexing the overall treatment effect as well as the effect of treatment on 
symptom change from baseline to specific time-points. Missing data in all models will be 
handled using full information maximum likelihood estimation. 
 
Exploratory Analysis 
 
 
To examine treatment satisfaction, I will calculate descriptive statistics on the Mental 
Health Satisfaction Questionnaire scores within each condition and compare means using an 
independent samples t-test. Additionally, to examine daily changes in PANAS and BADS-SF 
scores during the 14-day intervention period, I will plot average scores over time within 
conditions and conduct mixed effects models with linear and/or nonlinear time effects to capture 
change over time in each condition. Given the richness of this longitudinal daily data, including 
the possibility for a range of nonlinear change patterns, the modeling approach will be chosen 
following visualization of scores over time, time series residual diagnostics (e.g., tests of residual 
autocorrelation), model fit criteria (e.g., chi-square difference tests, Akaike Information Criteria, 
and Bayesian Information Criteria comparisons across candidate models). Candidate models 
include linear mixed models with and without polynomial growth terms, generalized additive 
models, and linear mixed models with autoregressive and/or moving average error structures. 
The key goal of these analyses will be to characterize as accurately and parsimoniously as 
possible the change in daily symptoms over time within the two conditions. Missing data in all 
models will be handled using full information maximum likelihood estimation. 
Finally, to examine mechanisms of change, I will conduct structural equation models 
examining changes in BADS-SF scores from pre-treatment to mid-treatment as a mediator of the 
effect of treatment condition on change in BDI-FS scores from pre-treatment to post-treatment. 
As with the daily diary data, this longitudinal analysis could be modeled in a number of possible 
ways; with this in mind, a mediation model will be selected based on examining model fit 
criteria and convergence for several possible models. One relatively simple possible model 
would involve specifying treatment condition as a predictor of mid-treatment BADS-SF scores, 
and modeling both treatment condition and mid-treatment BADS-SF scores as predictors of post-
treatment BDI-FS scores, and examining the indirect effect using bootstrapping. On the other 
hand, a more complex model would modeling longitudinal state-like relationships between 
BADS-SF and BDI-FS over the three time-points using either random intercepts cross-lagged 
panel modeling or latent change score modeling, and examining if the longitudinal relationship 
between state-like changes in BADS-SF explain treatment condition’s effect on BDI-FS. Again, 
the goal would be to select the most accurate and parsimonious model that will fit the data. 
Missing data in all models will be handled using full information maximum likelihood 
estimation. 
 
