STUDY: A Phase 2/3, Randomized, Parallel-group, Placebo-controlled, Double-Blind Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of CT-P59 in Combination With Standard of Care in Outpatients With SARS-CoV-2 Infection
NCT: NCT04602000
Phase: ['PHASE2', 'PHASE3']
Inclusion Criteria:

Patient had to meet all of the following criteria to be randomized in this study.

1. Patient was an adult male or female patient, aged 18 or above.
2. Patient was diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2 infection at Screening by using the sponsor-supplied rapid SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic test or RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction).
3. Patient with conditions meeting all of the following criteria:

   1. Oxygen saturation \> 94% on room air.
   2. Not requiring supplemental oxygen.
4. Patient who had an onset of symptom no more than 7 days prior to the study drug administration.
5. Patient had 1 or more of the SARS-CoV-2 infection-associated symptoms within but no more than 7 days prior to the study drug administration.

Exclusion Criteria:

Patients meeting any of the following criteria were excluded from the study.

1. Patient had current severe condition meeting one of the following:

   1. Previous or current hospitalization or requirement of hospitalization for treatment of serious SARS-CoV-2 related conditions.
   2. Respiratory distress with respiratory rate ≥30 breaths/min.
   3. Required supplemental oxygen
   4. Experienced shock
   5. Complicated with other organs failure, and intensive care unit monitoring treatment is needed by investigator's discretion.
2. Patient had received or had a plan to receive any of the following prohibited medications or treatments:

   1. Drugs with actual or possible antiviral drugs and/or possible anti-SARS-CoV-2 activity including but not limited to remdesivir, chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine, dexamethasone (or alternative corticosteroids to dexamethasone), interferon beta-1b, ribavirin, and other immunomodulatory agents and human immunodeficiency virus protease inhibitors (lopinavir-ritonavir, etc.) for therapeutic purpose of SARS-CoV-2 infection prior to study drug administration
   2. Any SARS-CoV-2 human IV immunoglobulin, convalescent plasma for the treatment of SARS-CoV-2 infection prior to st
This was a Phase 2/3 study to assess the efficacy about therapeutic effect of CT-P59 to the mild to moderate SARS-CoV-2 infected patients and the safety during after study drug injection.