 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Effects of Music and Auditory Beat Stimulation on Anxiety 
Statistical Analysis Plan 
Approved by the Ryerson Ethics Board: REB 2020-068 on March 26th, 2020, renewal 
approval:  March 18th, 2021 
NCT#:  
Date: 2021-11-26 
 
Statistical Analysis Plan 
 
For each participant the post-experimental treatment STICSA, PANAS and SAM Valence and arousal scores will be 
subtracted from the pre-experimental treatment scores. Shapiro-Wilks normality and homogeneity of variances 
tests will be done on the STICSA, PANAS and SAM datasets, and homogeneity of covariances tests will be done on 
music preferences, and personality type datasets to determine if assumptions of the Multivariate Analysis of 
Covariance (MANCOVA) are satisfied. If these assumptions are satisfied, a MANCOVA over the factor of experimental 
condition will be performed with music preferences, spontaneous blink rate and personality type as covariates and 
the relative differences (Pre-treatment – Post-treatment) of STICSA, PANAS and SAM Valence and arousal scores as 
dependent variables. Post-hoc Tukey’s HSD multiple comparisons tests will be done comparing the LUCID music with 
theta ABS condition with all of the other experimental conditions. Further post-hoc Tukey’s HSD multiple 
comparisons tests will be done comparing the theta ABS and LUCID music conditions with the pink noise condition. 
Statistically accounting for music preferences, spontaneous blink rate, personality type, age and gender as covariates 
should reduce some variability in the analysis. 
If the data do not satisfy the assumptions for the MANCOVA, permutations tests, specifically the lmPerm package 
in R will be used to conduct a permutation version of the repeated measures ANCOVA for each dependent variable 
(STICSA Somatic, STICSA Cognitive, Positive Affect (PANAS), Negative Affect (PANAS) and SAM Valence and arousal 
scores), with time (pre and post intervention) as the within subjects variable and experimental condition as the 
between subjects factor. Post-hoc permutation tests will be done comparing the LUCID music with theta binaural 
beats condition with all of the other experimental conditions for each dependent variable. Permutation tests are a 
good way to control the type I error rate for multiple comparisons, it is non-parametric and so makes no 
assumptions about the underlying distribution of the data that are common in other inferential statistical tests 
(Camargo, Azuaje, Wang, & Zheng, 2008; Good, 1994; Kuehl, 2000).  
 
References 
Camargo, A., Azuaje, F., Wang, H., & Zheng, H. (2008). Permutation – based statistical tests for multiple 
hypotheses. Source Code for Biology and Medicine, 3(1), 15. doi:10.1186/1751-0473-3-15 
 
Good, P. (1994). Permutation tests: A practical guide to resampling methods for testing hypotheses. New York: 
Springer Science + Business Media. 
 
Kuehl, R. O. (2000). Design of experiments: Statistical Principles of Research Design (2nd ed.). Pacific Grove, 
California: Duxbury Press. 
 
 
