STUDY: A Two Part, Phase I/II, Multi-Center, Double-Blind, Randomized, Vehicle-Controlled Study of the Safety and Efficacy of Topically Applied AMTX-100 CF in Adult Patients With Mild to Moderate Atopic Dermatitis
NCT: NCT04313400
Phase: ['PHASE1', 'PHASE2']
Part 1 Inclusion Criteria:

Subjects are required to meet ALL of the following criteria for enrollment into the Phase I (Part 1) of the study:

1. Male or female subjects who are 18 years or older
2. If female and not infertile (defined below), the subject must agree for the duration of the study to use one of the following forms of contraception 1) systemic hormonal treatment 2) an intrauterine device (IUD) which was implanted at least 2 months prior to screening or 3) "double-barrier" contraception (condom, diaphragm and spermicide are each considered a barrier). Females are considered to be infertile if they are either a) surgically sterile or b) have had spontaneous amenorrhea for at least the last 2 years and at least 2 years after the onset of amenorrhea while not receiving hormone replacement therapy and had a Follicle-Stimulating Hormone (FSH) level greater than 40 mIU/mL and an estradiol level less than 30 pg/mL
3. All fertile female subjects as described above need to have a negative urine pregnancy test at the screening and baseline visits
4. Subject is capable of providing informed consent and is willing to sign the ICF prior to study Screening and agrees to comply with the study protocol requirements
5. Subject is able to apply topical products on all treatable assigned areas by self and/or caregiver (if applicable), per the Investigator
6. Subject is in general good physical/mental health per the Investigator
7. Subject's Total Body Surface Area (BSA) is between 1.5 and 2.1 m2 per the Mosteller formula
8. The subject has physician confirmed mild to moderate Atopic Dermatitis (AD) defined by the Eichenfield revised criteria of Hannifin and Rajka, for at least 6 months prior to study enrollment
9. Validated Investigator's Global Assessment for Atopic Dermatitis (vIGA-AD™) score of 2 or 3 (mild to moderate) at the screening and baseline visits
10. Subject has Atopic Dermatitis (AD) involvement with eligible treatable percent of the BSA appropriate for top
This study determines the Maximum Tolerable Dose (MTD) by maximum BSA percentage treated and evaluates safety and efficacy of 1.1% w/w AMTX-100 CF versus placebo (vehicle).

The study has two parts:

Phase I (Part 1):

Approximately Twenty-five (25) subjects with various treatable Body Surface Area (BSA) involvement of Mild to Moderate Atopic Dermatitis will be enrolled in the study and treated with 1.1% w/w AMTX-100 CF.

Phase II (Part 2):

Approximately sixty (60) subjects with Mild to Moderate Atopic Dermatitis with various treatable BSA involvement of Mild to Moderate Atopic Dermatitis will be randomized to be treated with 1.1% w/w AMTX-100 CF3 concentration or Vehicle (Placebo) in the study.