STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT03422848
Brief Title: Hydration to Optimize Metabolism
Official Title: Hydration to Optimize Metabolism
Sponsor: Region Skane

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2018-04-24
Completion Date: 2025-11-03

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: NA
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: PREVENTION
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 797

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Water intervention arm
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: The water intervention group will increase their habitual daily water intake with 1.5 L of tap water. Furthermore they will receive general life style advice (general oral and written advice on diet and physical activity).
  Arm 2: Control arm
    Type: OTHER
    Description: Control group that will receive general life style advice (general oral and written advice on diet and physical activity).

INTERVENTIONS
  1. Water (DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT)
     Description: Increased daily water intake with 1.5 L of water on top of habitual water intake.
  2. general life style advice (BEHAVIORAL)
     Description: oral and written advice on diet and physical activity

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Fasting plasma glucose concentration (mmol/L)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of fasting plasma glucose between water intervention arm and control arm.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Diabetes incidence
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in diabetes incidence between water intervention arm and control arm.
  2. Post oral glucose load glucose concentration (mmol/L)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of post oral glucose load glucose concentration (mmol/L) between water intervention arm and control arm
  3. Fasting insulin concentration (mIE/L)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of fasting insulin (mIE/L) between water intervention arm and control arm
  4. Post oral glucose load insulin concentration (mIE/L)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of post oral glucose load insulin concentration (mIE/L) between water intervention arm and control arm
  5. Fasting glucagon concentration (pmol/L)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of fasting glucagon (pmol/L) between water intervention arm and control arm
  6. Post oral glucose load glucagon concentration (pmol/L)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of post oral glucose load glucagon concentration (pmol/L) between water intervention arm and control arm
  7. HbA1c concentration (mmol/mol)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of HbA1c (mmol/mol) between water intervention arm and control arm
  8. Waist circumference (cm)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of waist circumference (cm) between water intervention arm and control arm
  9. Body mass index (kg/m^2)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of body mass index (kg/m\^2) between water intervention arm and control arm
  10. Systolic blood pressure (mmHg)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of systolic blood pressure (mmHg) between water intervention arm and control arm
  11. Diastolic blood pressure (mmHg)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of diastolic blood pressure (mmHg) between water intervention arm and control arm
  12. Triglyceride concentration (mmol/L)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of triglycerides (mmol/L) between water intervention arm and control arm
  13. HDL cholesterol concentration (mmol/L)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of HDL cholesterol (mmol/L) between water intervention arm and control arm
  14. LDL cholesterol concentration (mmol/L)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of LDL cholesterol (mmol/L) between water intervention arm and control arm
  15. Apolipoprotein B concentration (g/L)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of Apolipoprotein B (g/L) between water intervention arm and control arm
  16. Apolipoprotein A1 concentration (g/L)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of Apolipoprotein A1 (g/L) between water intervention arm and control arm
  17. Urine albumin/creatinine ratio (g/mol)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of urine albumin/creatinine ratio (g/mol) between water intervention arm and control arm
  18. Estimated glomerular filtration rate (mL/min/1,73 m2)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of estimated glomerular filtration rate (mL/min/1,73 m2) between water intervention arm and control arm
  19. Creatinine clearance (mL/min)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of creatinine clearance (mL/min) between water intervention arm and control arm
  20. Fasting cortisol concentration (nmol/L)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of fasting cortisol (nmol/L) between water intervention arm and control arm
  21. Fasting adrenocorticotropic hormone concentration (pmol/L)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of fasting adrenocorticotropic hormone (pmol/L) between water intervention arm and control arm
  22. C-reactive protein concentration (mg/L)
     Time Frame: 12 months
     Description: Difference in change of C-reactive protein (mg/L) between water intervention arm and control arm
  23. Hair cortisol concentration (pg/mg)
     Time Frame: 12 months between samplings
     Description: Difference in change of hair cortisol (pg/mg) between water intervention arm and control arm. Hair cortisol is a measure of chronic stress exposure 3 months prior to sampling.

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 20 Years
Maximum Age: 75 Years
Healthy Volunteers: True
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Provision of informed consent, age 20-75 years with high plasma concentration of vasopressin (plasma concentration of copeptin of \> 6.1 pmol/L in women and \> 10.7 pmol/L in men) and 24 hour urine osmolality \> 600 milliosmol (mOsm) /kg water.

Exclusion Criteria:

* 24 hour urine volume \> 1.5 L, pregnancy or breastfeeding, plasma sodium \< 135 mmol/L, use of diuretics, lithium or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) drugs, chronic kidney disease (estimated glomerular filtration rate \< 30 mL/min), heart failure, inflammatory bowel disease, type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes treated with insulin, vulnerable subjects (subjects with legal guardian, with loss of personal liberty).

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
This study evaluates hydration (1.5 L of water daily during 1 year) in the lowering of blood glucose concentration in adults with signs of dehydration (elevated levels of the vasopressin marker copeptin and high urine osmolality). Half of participants will in addition to lifestyle advice receive extra water on top of their habitual fluid intake, and the other half (control) will receive only lifestyle advice.

Detailed Description:
High plasma concentration of vasopressin (i.e. antidiuretic hormone) is a novel and independent risk factor for type 2 diabetes, the metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular disease and premature death. The main physiological role of vasopressin is to maintain constant plasma osmolality. Previous studies in rats and mendelian randomization studies in humans suggest causality between elevated vasopressin concentration and elevated plasma glucose concentration. As vasopressin can be suppressed by increasing water intake, we hypothesize that water supplementation in individuals with high vasopressin can lower plasma glucose and prevent diabetes.

The aim of this project is to test in a single-centre randomized clinical trial (RCT), if water supplementation in subjects with high plasma levels of vasopressin (measured by a stable vasopressin marker of its precursor hormone called copeptin) can reduce fasting levels of glucose (primary outcome measure), risk of new-onset diabetes and other cardiometabolic risk factors (secondary outcome measures).