STUDY: Multicenter, Adaptive, Randomized, Placebo-controlled, Double Blind, Parallel-group Phase 2/3 Trial, to Study Efficacy and Safety of Two Doses of Raloxifene in Adult Paucisymptomatic COVID-19 Patients.
NCT: NCT05172050
Phase: ['PHASE2', 'PHASE3']
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Subject autonomously provides informed consent prior to initiation of any study procedures
2. Males and females ≥ 40 years old
3. Understands and agrees to comply with planned study procedures, has the availability of an email address as well as an Internet connection at domicile location
4. Agrees to the collection of nasopharyngeal swabs and venous blood samples per protocol
5. Has laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection as determined by an approved molecular test (PCR) in Europe within 10 days at the screening time
6. Patient paucisymptomatic who complains at the screening time at least one of the following symptoms mild to moderate: fever, dyspnea, headache, cough, dysgeusia, conjunctivitis, vomiting, diarrhea, anosmia, muscle or body aches or other symptoms which in the opinion of the Investigator are part of the COVID-19 clinical picture
7. No need of supplemental oxygen therapy, mechanical ventilation
8. Females of child-bearing potential and with an active sexual life must not wish to get pregnant within 30 days after the end of the study and must be using at least one of the following reliable methods of contraception:

   1. Hormonal contraception, systemic, implantable, transdermal, or injectable contraceptives for at least 2 months before the screening visit until 30 days after final visit
   2. A non-hormonal intrauterine device \[IUD\] or female condom with spermicide or contraceptive sponge with spermicide or diaphragm with spermicide or cervical cap with spermicide for at least 2 months before the screening visit until 30 days after final visit
   3. A male sexual partner who agrees to use a male condom with spermicide
   4. A sterile sexual partner

Female participants of non-child-bearing potential or in post-menopausal status for at least 1 year will be admitted. For all female subjects, with child-bearing potential, pregnancy test result must be negative before first drug intake on T7 and T14.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Be
The objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of two different doses of raloxifene orally administered compared to placebo in patients with early diagnosis of paucisymptomatic COVID-19.

Primary objectives:

* Evaluation of the effectiveness of therapy in reducing the proportion of subjects who still have viruses in the upper airways after 7 days of therapy
* Evaluation of the effectiveness of therapy in reducing the proportion of subjects who requires supplemental oxygen therapy and/or mechanical ventilation within 14 days of starting therapy

Secondary objectives:

* Evaluation of the effectiveness of therapy in reducing the proportion of subjects who still have viruses in the upper airways after 14 and 28 days of therapy
* Evaluation of the effectiveness of therapy in reducing the proportion of subject patients who requires supplemental oxygen therapy and/or mechanical ventilation within 7 or 28 days of starting therapy
* 7, 14 and 28 days drug safety and tolerability profile
* Assessment of body temperature, blood and biochemical parameters between T0 and T28