STUDY: A Phase 2, Multi-center, Open-label, Single Arm Study of AL101 Monotherapy in Patients With Notch Activated Triple Negative Breast Cancer
NCT: NCT04461600
Phase: ['PHASE2']
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Male of female subjects who are at least 18 years of age (inclusive) at the time of signing the Informed Consent Form (ICF).
2. Have at least one measurable lesion per RECIST v1.1.
3. Have formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue available from a metastatic lesion; a tumor block or 25 unstained slides from an archived (within 2 years) or fresh tumor samples (core or punch needle biopsy) are acceptable.
4. Documented tumor progression following no more than 3 lines of systemic chemotherapy, PARP inhibitor therapy or immunotherapy for metastatic disease, as appropriate. Of note, neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy will not count as prior lines of therapy.
5. Histologically confirmed diagnosis of inoperable locally advanced or metastatic TNBC defined as ER and progesterone receptor staining \<10%, and HER2 negative defined as IHC 0 to 1+
6. Documented Notch activation from tumor biopsy results from within the last 2 years from a commercially available NGS assay, LDT or other validated IUO clinical trial assay.
7. Women of childbearing potential (WOCBP) must have a negative serum or urine pregnancy test.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. A known additional malignancy that is progressing or requires active treatment that is considered medically active and may interfere in the ability to detect responses in this subject. Exceptions include basal cell carcinoma of the skin, squamous cell carcinoma of the skin that have undergone potentially curative therapy or in situ cervical cancer.
2. BC that, in the opinion of the investigator, is considered amenable to potentially curative treatment.
3. Symptomatic central nervous system (CNS) metastases.
4. Current or recent (within 2 months of IP administration) gastrointestinal (GI) disease or disorders that increase the risk of diarrhea, such as inflammatory bowel disease and Crohn's disease.
5. Developed immune-mediated colitis with immunotherapy unless resolved to G1 or lower and without requirement of steroid 
The current study is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of AL101 monotherapy in subjects with Notch-activated recurrent or metastatic TNBC; Notch activation will be determined by a Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) test.