STUDY: A Phase 2b, 12-week, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled, Randomized, Parallel Group, Multicenter Study of the Safety and Efficacy of JZP385 in the Treatment of Adults With Moderate to Severe Essential Tremor
NCT: NCT05122650
Phase: ['PHASE2']
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Participant must be 18 to 80 years of age inclusive, at the time of signing the informed consent.
2. Participants who are diagnosed with ET (including ET plus) according to the MDS Consensus Statement on the Classification of Tremors from the Task Force on Tremor of the International Parkinson's and Movement Disorder Society.
3. Participants have moderate to severe disability associated with tremor as determined by a score of ≥ 22 on the TETRAS-ADL subscale and a CGI-S rating of at least moderate for participants' ability to function.
4. Sex and Contraceptive/Barrier Requirements

   During the study intervention and for at least 30 days after the last dose of study intervention male participants must refrain from donating sperm. Non-abstinent males must agree to use a male condom in combination with female partner use of a highly effective contraceptive method with a failure rate of \< 1% per year. All male participants must agree to use a male condom when engaging in any activity that allows for passage of ejaculate to another person.

   Female participants must not be pregnant or breastfeeding, are either women of non-childbearing potential (WONCBP), or are women of childbearing potential (WOCBP) using a highly effective contraceptive method with a failure rate of \< 1% during the study intervention period and for at least 30 days after the last dose of study intervention. Male partners of WOCBP are required to use barrier protection, eg, condoms, from the first dose of study intervention until 30 days after the last dose of study intervention.

   A WOCBP must have a negative highly sensitive serum pregnancy test at Screening Visit 1 and negative urine pregnancy tests (unless serum is required by local regulations) at the Screening Visit 2 (if applicable) and at the Baseline Visit

   \- If a urine test cannot be confirmed as negative (eg, an ambiguous result), a serum pregnancy test is required. In such cases, the participant must be ex
This is a 12-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, parallel-group, multicenter study of the safety and efficacy of JZP385 in the treatment of adult participants with moderate to severe ET.