 
Mhealth for Pre-exposure Prophylaxis Adherence by Young Adult Men, 
Phase 2 
NCT04633200 
August 1, 2021 
 
Analysis plan: 
 
Data Analysis: Analyses will be performed using SPSS version 22 to run diagnostics 
(tests for normality, multicollinearity, heteroscedasticity) to assess violations of 
analytic assumptions, univariate statistics, bivariate tests, and multivariate linear 
regression. Because study retention may be influenced by preconditions, t-tests or 
Wilcoxon test will be used to compare intervention group and control group on all T1 
variables. T- tests can be used for normal distribution while Wilcoxon test can be 
used in skewed distribution. Implications of significant differences will be discussed. 
Based on the intent to treat approach, missing T2 data will be imputed to retain all 
participants in analyses. We will include all participants who provide informed consent 
and engage in the T1 assessment, regardless of what portion of the assigned 
treatment or control protocol is completed. Data will be imputed using multiple 
imputation for participants who fail to complete the T2 (posttest) assessment. 
Sensitivity analyses will explore the implications of the imputation methods 
employed (e.g., multiple imputation, propensity score matching). Post- recruitment 
attrition (loss of potential participants who were recruited but failed to engage in any 
assessments or part of the treatment or control protocol) will be explored in all 
discussion and implications of study findings. The following series of regressions will 
assess study hypotheses. 
Hypothesis 1: Exposure to mhealth intervention will result in significant 
improvement in PrEP adherence compared to the control group. We will firstly 
examine the distribution of all variables and their correlations. Where two similar 
variables are correlated at r>0.4, 1 variable will be selected for inclusion in 
regression models to avoid collinearity (see Patel et al., 2016). We will employ 
multivariate linear regression to estimate the association between the intervention 
and PrEP adherence. In order to compare the difference of PrEP adherence (after 
12 weeks) between intervention group and control group, the first regression model 
will only include the dichotomous treatment variable (intervention group versus 
control). Based on the first model, the second regression model will add three 
confounders (three demographic variables: age, education, and income) to compare 
the gaps after controlling for age, education and income level. Based on the second 
model, besides the 3 confounders, the third regression model will add an interaction 
term, the dichotomous treatment variable and the dichotomous intervention variable 
(before the intervention vs after) and their interaction. The coefficient of the 
interaction term will be the difference between the increase in intervention group and 
the increase in control group. 
 
Hypothesis 2: The impact of intervention on the primary outcome will be mediated 
through key factors, i.e. increased PrEP self-efficacy, increased PrEP knowledge, 
increased intention to follow PrEP guidelines, and reduced stress burden. To test 
the mediation effect, the following three regressions will be conducted. First, we will 
set PrEP adherence as the dependent variable, demographic variables and 
dichotomous treatment variable and other independent variables as the independent 
variables. Second, we will set PrEP adherence as the dependent variable, and each 
of the four mediators as the independent variable. Third, we will set the dichotomous 
treatment variable as the dependent variable and each of the four mediators as the 
independent variables. The coefficients of the three regressions will show the 
mediation effects. Time on PrEP will be examined as a potential moderating 
variable, including the potential for moderated mediation in which mediators may 
become significant only at certain levels of the time since starting PrEP. Results will 
be interpreted via the standard interpretation of a sequence of regression models 
(Aneshensel, 2002; Baron & Kenny, 1986) to determine whether these variables 
mediate or partially mediate intervention effects, and the extent to which time on 
PrEP moderates these relationships. 
 
 
 
Measures. Both baseline (T1) and 12-week follow up (T2) data will be collected 
on the following key measures: Primary outcome measure: The primary 
outcome compares differences between (T1) and (T2) for the key measure of 
interest: PrEP adherence: Our Phase 1 open-ended data revealed participants’ 
general discomfort with blood tests and needles. Thus, we will not seek PrEP blood 
levels in Phase 2 to measure adherence as doing so would likely pose a barrier to 
recruitment and retention. Instead, we will use Wilson’s simple 3-item self-report 
adherence measure which showed good psychometric characteristics and good 
construct validity when compared with an electronic drug monitoring standard, for 
both HIV and non-HIV medications, and has been validated with culturally-diverse 
patient groups, including MSM (Fowler et al., 2014; Wilson et al., 2014; 2016). The 
items include: 1) In the last 30 days, on how many days did you miss at least one 
dose of any of PrEP (write in # of days) 2) In the last 30 days, how good a job did 
you do at taking your PrEP in the way you were supposed to? (6-point Likert) 3) In 
the last 30 days, how often did you take your PrEP in the way you were supposed 
to? (6-point Likert). Note: We will also examine self-report app adherence data. App 
adherence data can only be collected via the app as yes or no responses to pill 
reminders, and thus cannot serve as pre-intervention baseline. We will, however, 
compare app adherence data from weeks 1 and 12. 
 
Consideration of Relevant Biological Variables: We will only include culturally-
diverse young adult males who have sex with other males in our study as they are 
disproportionately represented among groups at increased risk for HIV. Moreover, 
males account for 95.3% of all PrEP users (Huang et al., 2018). 
 
Mediating Variables: We propose four mediating variables: PrEP self-efficacy, 
intention to follow PrEP guidelines, PrEP knowledge and stress burden. To measure 
PrEP treatment self-efficacy, we will use the Adherence Self-Efficacy Scale (ASES) 
(Johnson et al., 2007). It is a 12-item scale of patients’ confidence to carry out 
important HIV treatment-related behaviors, most of which overlap with PrEP 
behaviors (Kogelman, personal communication, 2019), including taking medication in 
face of barriers (e.g., How confident are you that you can stick to your medication 
when your daily routine is disrupted?). Dr. Kogelman made slight modifications to the 
ASES for use with PrEP. We include intention to follow guidelines as a mediator 
because we believe that intending to follow guidelines reflects greater “patient 
activation” (see Hibbard & Greene, 2013), which is associated with better medication 
adherence. Furthermore, showing up for 3-month testing, in itself, increases patients’ 
interactions with providers, which can also positively impact adherence (see Chen et 
al., 2013). 
Because there were no measures for intention to follow PrEP guidelines, Drs. 
Weitzman and Kogelman created a 5-item measure informed by a 2-item measure of 
safe sex intentions developed by Fischer et al. (1998) for use with MSM. A sample 
item from the new measure includes: While I’m on PrEP, I intend to be tested for HIV 
and STDs every 3 months (5-point LIkert ranging from very untrue to very true). There 
are also no PrEP knowledge measures. Therefore, Drs. Weitzman and Kogelman 
created a 6-item multiple-choice instrument with face validity based on the 
Truvada patient education booklet and CDC guidelines. Content covers PrEP 
knowledge (medication purpose, side effects, concomitant condom use, HIV testing), 
all of which will be covered in educational texts. 
Sample item: If you take PrEP, you should use condoms: a) every time you have 
anal intercourse b) most times you have anal intercourse c) only if you have anal 
intercourse with a HIV+ partner d) you don't need to use condoms if you are on 
PrEP (correct answer: a). Because our Phase 2 study is twice the length of Phase 1, 
participants will receive twice as many PrEP education texts. Thus, we still expect to 
see PrEP knowledge improvement in Phase 2, despite lack of change in Phase 1. 
Perceived stress burden will be included as a potential mediating variable for two 
reasons: First, the intervention targets stress burden via supportive texts and an 
online community. Second, reductions in perceived stress can facilitate medication 
adherence (Stewart et al., 2005). Stress burden will be assessed using the 10-item 
Perceived Stress Scale (Cohen et al., 1983), which has been validated with a 
wide-range of patient and non-patient groups (e.g. Chiu et al., 2016; Perera et al., 
2017). We will analyze psychometric properties and construct validity on the two 
new measures (intention to follow guidelines and PrEP knowledge) as a part of our 
Phase 2 analyses. 
 
Moderating Variable. Length of time on PrEP (in months) will be included as a 
moderator as it seems possible that the greater the length of time on PrEP, the 
more likely a participant has developed personal strategies to support 
adherence or have supports (family members, friends, healthcare providers) in 
his social environment that help with adherence. 
 
Demographic and Control Variables. T1 assessments will also gather a number of 
demographic indicators, including age, years of education, income and, as mentioned 
above, length of time on PrEP. Income will be coded categorically from 1 to 7 in 
relation to the federal poverty level federal poverty level: <100% (1), 100%-149% (2), 
150%-199% (3), 200%-249% (4), 250%-299% (5), 
300%-349% (6), 350%-399% (7), and ≥ 400%. 
 
Randomization: Participants will be randomly assigned to intervention or control 
group via the randomizer function on Qualtrics software. Sample size: We will aim to 
recruit and gain consent from 110 participants (55 each for intervention and control 
arms). Power analysis: Based on our Phase 1 pretest results, an a priori power 
analysis for a multiple regression with 4 predictors of PrEP adherence was conducted 
to determine a sample size with a power of at least 90% with a two-sided alpha level 
of .05. The desired minimum sample size was 92 participants (Rosner, 2010). In the 
event of 20% attrition, we added 20% additional participants to the sample, and set 
110 as the total sample size. Therefore, even if the study encounters diminished 
recruitment or greater post-recruitment attrition, it should still be possible to detect 
moderate effects. 
 
 
