STUDY: An Open-Label Phase 2 Trial to Evaluate the Male Reproductive Safety of a 6-Month Combination Treatment for Pulmonary Tuberculosis (TB) of Bedaquiline Plus Pretomanid Plus Moxifloxacin Plus Pyrazinamide (BPaMZ) in Adult Male Participants With Drug Resistant Pulmonary TB
NCT: NCT04179500
Phase: ['PHASE2']
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Understands study procedures and voluntarily provides written informed consent prior to the start of any study-specific procedures.
2. Male gender 18 years or over
3. Body weight (in light clothing and no shoes) ≥ 45kg.
4. A positive molecular test for tuberculosis in sputum either at screening or within one month prior to enrolment.
5. Disease Characteristics:

   * Participants must have been diagnosed with TB prior to or at screening
   * Participants' TB should be resistant to rifampicin and/or isoniazid, and susceptible to fluoroquinolones by rapid sputum-based tests.
   * Participants who have had previous treatment for DR-TB for more than 3 months at start of screening should be discussed with the medical monitor.
6. A chest x-ray, within 26 weeks prior to or at the screening visit, which in the opinion of the Investigator is compatible with pulmonary TB

Exclusion criteria:

1. Resistant to fluoroquinolones by rapid molecular test
2. History of male infertility or vasectomy
3. Unable to produce semen sample
4. Evidence at screening of azoospermia
5. Known erectile dysfunction that would prevent ejaculation.
6. Historical or active disease process of the male reproductive tract that would compromise sperm production. e.g. tuberculous epididymitis.
7. History of any illness that, in the opinion of the Investigator, might confound the results of the study or poses an additional risk to the participant by their participation in the study.
8. For HIV infected participants any of the following:

   1. CD4+ count \<100 cells/μL
   2. Received intravenous antifungal medication within the last 90 days
9. Participants with newly diagnosed tuberculosis and HIV that require initiation of appropriate HIV therapy before participants has received at least 2 weeks of an antituberculosis regimen.
10. Received pretomanid and/or delamanid to treat TB
11. Known chronic hepatitis B or C
12. For HIV infected participants:

    1. The following antiretrovir
Pretomanid is being used in an antimicrobial combination regimen(s) to treat patients with pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). The primary purpose of the Male Reproductive Safety - "BPaMZ/SEM"- clinical study is to evaluate the potential effect of pretomanid on human testicular function whilst being used in a 26 weeks antimicrobial combination regimen consisting of bedaquiline (B) plus pretomanid (Pa) plus moxifloxacin (M) and pyrazinamide (Z) (BPaMZ).