STUDY: A Phase 3, Multicenter, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-controlled Study of AG-120 in Previously-treated Subjects With Nonresectable or Metastatic Cholangiocarcinoma With an IDH1 Mutation
NCT: NCT02989857
Phase: ['PHASE3']
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Be ≥18 years of age.
2. Have a histopathological diagnosis (fresh or banked tumor biopsy sample, preferably collected within the last 3 years) of nonresectable or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma and are not eligible for curative resection, transplantation, or ablative therapies.
3. Have documented IDH1 gene-mutated disease (from a fresh tumor biopsy or the most recent banked tumor tissue available) based on central laboratory testing (R132C/L/G/H/S mutation variants tested).
4. Have an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (ECOG PS) score of 0 or 1
5. Have an expected survival of ≥3 months.
6. Have at least one evaluable and measurable lesion as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. Participants who have received prior local therapy (including but not limited to embolization, chemoembolization, radiofrequency ablation, or radiation therapy) are eligible provided measurable disease falls outside of the treatment field or within the field and has shown ≥20% growth in size since post-treatment assessment.
7. Have documented disease progression following at least 1 and no more than 2 prior systemic regimens for advanced disease (nonresectable or metastatic). Participants must have received at least 1 gemcitabine- or 5-FU-containing regimen for advanced cholangiocarcinoma. Participants who have received systemic adjuvant chemotherapy will be permitted provided there is documented disease progression during or within 6 months of completing the therapy.

Exclusion criteria:

1. Received a prior IDH inhibitor.
2. Received systemic anticancer therapy or an investigational agent \<2 weeks prior to Day 1 (washout from prior immune based anticancer therapy is 4 weeks). In addition, the first dose of study treatment should not occur before a period ≥5 half-lives of the investigational agent has elapsed.
3. Received radiotherapy to metastatic sites of disease \<2 weeks prior to Day 1.
4. Underwent hepatic radi
Study AG120-C-005 is a Phase 3, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of orally administered AG-120. Participants, all personnel involved in the evaluation of participants' response to treatment (e.g., Investigators, study coordinators, study pharmacists), and designated Sponsor team members will be blinded to study treatment. Participants are required to have a histologically-confirmed diagnosis of isocitrate dehydrogenase-1 (IDH1) gene-mutated cholangiocarcinoma that is not eligible for curative resection, transplantation, or ablative therapies prior to enrollment. IDH1 mutation testing will be performed at participating investigative sites. Participants must have progression of disease and have received at least 1 but not more than 2 prior treatment regimens for advanced disease (nonresectable or metastatic). All participants must have received either a gemcitabine or a 5 fluorouracil (5-FU) based chemotherapy regimen.