PROTOCOL TITLE: 
Neuromodulation of motor and sensory spinal pathways in patients undergoing epidural spinal cord stimulation. 
 
 
PRINCIPLE INVESTIGATOR: 
Nathan C. Rowland, MD, PhD 
 
 
CO-INVESTIGATORS: 
Taylor Mayberry 
Mark Bowden, PT, PhD 
 
 
 
 
1.0 Objectives/Specific Aims 
An estimated 300,000 individuals in the United States have spinal cord injury (SCI) leading to chronic sensory 
and motor dysfunction and in many cases subsequent loss of ambulation and independence.1 In addition to its 
substantial negative impact on quality of life, loss of independence is associated with an economic burden on 
SCI patients estimated between $1.5 – 2.3 million cumulatively over their lifetimes.1,2 While physical rehabilitation 
for SCI has remained relatively unchanged in the past 20 years, the field of neuromodulation for SCI has evolved 
rapidly within the past decade. For instance, the addition of an implantable epidural spinal stimulator device has 
shown that, in tandem with locomotor training, low frequency tonic stimulation (LFTS) facilitates activation of 
lower extremities during volitional contracture attempts along with increased contralateral and synergistic motor 
output through stand/step events.3,4,5 This paradigm has led to recovery of ambulation in several SCI patients, 
generating widespread optimism in the SCI research community. However, mapping of activation thresholds for 
individual nerve roots using these methods is not clinically scalable. We propose to utilize multiple independent 
current control (MICC) and complex waveform configurations available on the Boston Scientific Spectra 
WaveWriter™ (BSW) implantable pulse generator (IPG) to investigate whether individual nerve root activation 
threshold mapping can be achieved on a temporal scale suitable for clinical utility in patients with SCI. 
 
The spinal cord relies on input from the motor cortex and surrounding extremities to initiate specific muscle 
recruitment, and recent evidence suggests that preservation of temporally specific proprioceptive information via 
dorsal column primary afferent fibers is critical for regaining ambulation following SCI.6,15 Current advancements 
in stimulator technology allow multiple program MICC delivery to be distinct from one another in both spatial 
targeting and waveform parameter. Additionally, new stimulator devices may alleviate the attenuating effect on 
primary afferent impulses using high frequency burst stimulation (HFBS), significantly reducing quantity of 
primary afferent recruitment needed for muscle activation.6,15 Our lab specializes in electrophysiological 
recordings in patients undergoing spinal cord stimulator implantation for chronic pain. In this proposal, we will 
apply these techniques to patients with incomplete SCI as well as a control population with chronic pain. Analysis 
of effects associated with spinal neuromodulation yielding changes in kinematics, proprioception, and/or module 
classification will be investigated.16,17 Our plan includes the following specific aims:  
 
Aim 1. Determine the ability of BSW to isolate nerve root activation intraoperatively using MICC and 
customized HFBS patterns. Question: Will utilization of MICC and HFBS waveform patterns allow accurate 
rostral/caudal and medial/lateral paddle placement? In this aim, both patient groups undergoing SCS paddle and 
IPG implantation under general anesthesia will have subcutaneous needle electrodes placed for EMG 
identification of contacts and stimulation amplitudes eliciting equivalent bilateral, proximal and distal muscle 
activity. We hypothesize that MICC and HFBS will facilitate guidance for proper paddle placement with lower 
current amplitude and with a higher degree of muscle specificity when compared to traditional LFTS. 
 
Aim 2. Determine the effect of MICC and HFBS on proprioceptive afferent signaling with stimulation 
configurations targeting muscle groups relevant to functional task. Question: Does MICC/HFBS, when 
compared to traditional LFTS, allow for increased spatial limb awareness during passive motion? In this aim, 
postoperative patients will undergo isokinetic passive proprioceptive testing during spinal cord stimulation with 
optimal HFBS and LFTS parameters targeting musculature surrounding the knee and ankle. We hypothesize 
that subjects will have increased awareness of limbs in space through passive movement during optimal HFBS 
compared to optimal LFTS parameters. 
 
Aim 3. Determine the effect of MICC and HFBS on co-activations of lower extremity musculature through 
gait. Question: Does MICC/HFBS, when compared to LFTS, differentially effect muscle synergy patterns 
responsible for the underlying biomechanical aspects of ambulation? In this aim, subjects from SA1 and SA2 will 
perform treadmill walking while undergoing MICC/HFBS and LFTS. Subjects will be monitored with surface EMG 
and 3-D kinematic tracking software to quantify any changes in walking performance. We hypothesize that 
subjects will have decreased EMG module complexity through gait while experiencing optimal LFTS when 
compared to optimal HFBS. 
 
 
 
Commented [RN1]: This is actually not what we’re 
doing 
Commented [RN2]: reword 
2.0 Background 
 
Significance 
The incidence rates of spinal cord injury (SCI) in the United States are currently estimated at 54 cases per million 
or 17,000 new cases of SCI per year.1 The major causes of spinal cord injury are motor vehicle crashes and falls, 
representing 35% and 31% of new cases, respectively. Incidence of falls leading to SCI rises significantly with 
age resulting in 57% of cases at 60 years of age and older.9 The last half century has seen a steady increase in 
mean age at onset of injury – 37.1 years in 2005 and 42 years of age as of 2018.1,10 With an estimated lifetime 
economic burden of $1.5 - $2.3 million coupled with low rates of patients returning to employment (approximately 
12% at one-year post injury) additional study is warranted in attempts to increase independence and shorten the 
recovery time of the SCI population.1,2  
 
Physical interventions for this population base has greatly centered around the concept of traditional gait training, 
which utilizes leg bracing and upper extremity load bearing to facilitate upright movements to compensate for 
compromised muscle activity below the level of injury. More successfully, activity-based therapy, which emerged 
in the early 2000’s, focuses on activation of musculature below the level of injury while avoiding compensatory 
strategies in attempts to return the patient to neurological norms.12 Harkema et al 2011 demonstrated significant 
improvement in one of three traditional outcome measures (Berg Balance Scale, 6 Minute Walk Test, 10 Meter 
Walk Test) in 88% of subjects with incomplete injury using activity-based therapy. 13 The rate of recovery in the 
SCI population is stratified according to the American Spinal Injury Association Impairment Scale (AIS). Seventy-
eight percent of patients having incomplete injury evaluated as AIS C at onset of injury increase at least one AIS 
level within the first year of injury after appropriate physical therapy.11 
 
Several groups have begun exploring whether addition of spinal cord neuromodulation to activity-based therapy 
can facilitate standing, walking, and other functionally relevant tasks. In 2009 Harkema et al implanted a 16-
electrode array stimulator epidurally in a chronic complete SCI patient.3 Tonic stimulation ranging from 5-60 Hz 
(frequency), 210 to 450 s (pulse width) and amplitude ranging from 0.1 to 8.0 V was found to elicit lower 
extremity musculature activity causing co-activation during standing, rhythmic activation during stepping, and 
mechanically appropriate activation of agonist lower extremity muscles during weight shift in a subject with 
otherwise quiescent muscle activity.3 Building on the foundation of tonic stimulation, Gill et al introduced multiple 
independent current control (MICC) which allows for different stimulation parameters to be delivered in tandem, 
innervating spatially distinct regions of the spinal cord. The sequential programs supported bilateral tasks while 
stimulating at constant frequency, 20-50 Hz, suggesting that complex charge delivery via MICC can enable 
independent modulation of spinal motor neuron pools. Other recent findings by Angeli et al, 2018 incorporated 
the novelty of stimulation configuration mapping (SCM). SCM is the process of using local field (adjacent anode 
and cathode) and wide field (non-adjacent anode and cathode) electrode configurations incorporating various 
amplitudes and frequencies in attempts to produce more robust and rhythmical activation patterns of specific 
muscle groups.14 After performing SCM for four motor complete SCI subjects, the group utilized the customized 
programs to deliver tonic stimulation at fixed frequency and varying amplitudes during activity-based therapy. 
Using this method, two of the four participants were able to gain over-ground ambulation without manual 
facilitation after 278 LT sessions and 81 LT sessions, respectively.14 The effect of adding epidural spinal 
waveform stimulation in addition to MICC has not been investigated in the SCI population. 
 
The ability to program customized waveform stimulation patterns may help to address another important factor 
(in addition to nerve root selection) in facilitating recovery of standing and walking: preservation of proprioception. 
The amount of compromised afferent information during traditional spinal cord stimulation via LFTS is dependent 
upon the quantity of dorsal column primary afferents recruited and is proportional to increases in current and 
pulse width with both leading to increased fiber recruitment.6-7 Traditional stimulation parameters (15Hz-100Hz, 
210s–450s, 4.5mA–9.0mA) were found to cause detriment to interneuron modulation of inhibitory/excitatory 
interneurons from antidromic collision when amplitudes are high enough to innervate their homonymous motor 
neuron pool to activation threshold. However, high frequency burst stimulation (HFBS) at 600Hz was found to 
illicit motor neuron activation with a 39.8% reduction in current amplitude and 15% recruitment of modeled 
homonymous afferents, as opposed to 45% recruitment utilizing LFTS to elicit similar motor neuron activation.6 
 
The need for task-specific functional evaluation of SCI patients is of paramount concern to both clinicians and 
researchers. Using an analysis technique known as non-negative matrix factorization (NNMF), previous research 
in human locomotion has uncovered the existence of muscle synergy patterns that are activated during task-
specific functions and may be characterized into modules.16 Bowden et al investigated the capacity of NNMF to 
accurately reflect walking capacity in six walking assessments against the Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA). The 
FMA is a common clinical outcome instrument assessing motor function in neurologically impaired individuals.19 
The 17-item assessment for lower extremity function was designed to assess complex muscle activation needed 
for functional tasks. NNMF was found to be highly correlative to all six walking outcomes, while FMA correlated 
to two of six, indicating that NNMF may be superior to FMA for analysis of lower extremity functionality during a 
given functional task.17  Furthermore, module complexity through task-specific function was found to be 
negatively impacted by dorsal root deafferentation suggesting that the investigative technique may serve as a 
qualitative outcome measure and an indicator of proprioceptive retention.15  
 
3.0 Intervention to be studied 
 
Overview 
This study will perform the following research-specific procedures: 
1) Epidural spinal cord stimulation (SCS) 
2) Proprioception testing 
3) Body weight support and treadmill (BWST) testing 
 
Definitions and nomenclature 
Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) will be performed using a 32-electrode paddle 
array (Boston Scientific, Marlborough, MA) (Figure 1) implanted in the dorsal 
epidural space along the thoracolumbar region of the spinal cord. The array 
will be powered by a multiple independent current-controlled (MICC) 
implantable pulse generator (IPG) connected to the paddle via leads 
tunneled to the site of IPG placement per standard of care procedures for 
SCS implantation. Intraoperative subcutaneous needle placement for motor 
evoked potential (MEP), somatosensory evoked potential (SSEP) and 
electromyography (EMG) is a standard of care intraoperative adjunct used 
for SCS paddle placement) and will be delivered by a <find out name of 
machine> (Cadwell, Kennewick, WA). MUSC’s locomotion rehabilitation 
laboratory – located at the College of Health Professions Building C - houses 
a Biodex (Biodex Medical Systems, Shirley, NY) Pro System 4 
isokinetic/isometric dynamometer. The Biodex will standardize application 
of passive isokinetic knee flexion/extension trials to each blinded subject 
for proprioceptive investigations. Finally, describe system in gait lab <here 
you just need to say what each thing is used for> 
 
So and so will be referred to as TTDPM throughout the rest of this document 
 
Device use 
The epidural stimulator paddle (Boston Scientific, Marlborough, MA, model 4x8 CoverEdge™ 32) and IPG 
(Boston Scientific, Marlborough, MA, model Spectra WaveWriter™) are FDA-approved, commercially available 
devices designed to treat chronic pain of the back and lower extremities and will be used for their intended 
purpose – electrical stimulation of dorsal column fibers to mitigate pain perception. 
 
4.0 Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria / Study Population. 
Only patients considered an acceptable surgical candidate for SCS will be eligible for recruitment into this study.  
 
For patients with chronic pain, all diagnostic procedures will have taken place prior to recruitment as part of the 
routine diagnosis and care of patients with chronic pain. It is standard of care to require failure of conservative 
therapy, e.g., physical therapy and/or epidural steroid injections, and SCS temporary trial by a board-certified 
pain management specialist in addition to neuropsychological testing by a board-certified neuropsychologist prior 
to being considered for permanent SCS implantation. No patient will receive an MRI scan in order to be included 
in this study, and patients who did not have an MRI as part of their clinical assessment will not be eligible for this 
study.  
Figure 1: Boston Scientific CoverEdge™ 32 
Surgical Lead (left) and fluoroscopic image of 
the stimulator array after implantation along 
the dorsal epidural space (right). 
 
For patients with incomplete SCI, a medical history review and AIS classification evaluation will have already 
been performed by a board-certified physical medicine and rehabilitation physician or licensed physical therapist 
prior to undergoing the same diagnostic workup for SCS. 
 
All preoperative evaluations described above constitute standard of care for both populations. Patient eligibility 
for this study will be based on the following inclusion/exclusion criteria: 
 
Inclusion Criteria 
- 
Patients consented and scheduled for SCS surgery with the PI 
- 
Age 18-80 
 
Exclusion Criteria 
- 
Patients unable to actively participate in the consent process physically and/or cognitively 
- 
Patient with SCI and AIS A or B classification 
- 
Prior history of spinal neoplasm, infection, arteriovenous malformation and/or radiation to the spine  
 
The rationale for these criteria are as follows: patients with prior history of tumor, infection, arteriovenous 
malformation and/or radiation of the tissues surrounding the epidural space may result in formation of scar tissue 
which directly alters the resistance of the tissue to passing electrical current, potentially confounding study data. 
Patients with AIS classification of B or higher may be motor/sensory complete and unable to participate in the 
study protocol.  
 
5.0 Number of Subjects 
We propose to study 5 individuals with intractable lower back and/or leg pain and comorbid incomplete spinal 
cord injury, with an additional 5 subjects having only intractable lower back or leg pain to serve as our control 
group. A prior study conducted by Formento et al, 2018 using SCS and proprioceptive testing found a standard 
error and 95% confidence interval using successful and unsuccessful trial attempts using the Clopper-Pearson 
interval method among 4 subjects, with a found P < 0.05 among LFTS parameters and no stimulation, with a 
minimum of 10 trials per stimulation setting.6 Based on this, we expect that our small population will exhibit similar 
variance, thus justifying our subject size. The subject sample size is in direct comparison to sample sizes of 
previous proof of concept studies regarding SCS for SCI.3-6  
 
6.0 Setting 
The data pertaining to Aim 1 for this study will be recorded in the operating room at MUSC. Data collected during 
Aims 2 and 3 will be recorded in the Locomotor Rehabilitation Laboratory and the Locomotor Energetics and 
Assessment Laboratory respectively, which are both located in the College of Health Professions Building C at 
MUSC. Coded and identifiable data will be stored electronically on a secure server in separate folders. Signed 
consent forms will be located in a locked cabinet in a locked laboratory in the Clinical Sciences Building at MUSC.  
 
7.0 Recruitment Methods 
As with all protocols in our lab, an eligibility screening checklist will be used prior to completing the informed 
consent process. The screening will not require access to PHI and will be allowed under a waiver of signed 
consent for the prescreening. The screening checklist will contain only the inclusion and exclusion criteria for the 
study. The purpose of the screening is to ensure that patients meet ALL inclusion and exclusion criteria for the 
study prior to executing the informed consent. This screening is extremely important and necessary as it may 
highlight information not available in the patient’s electronic medical record, particularly if there are criteria not 
addressed by a patient’s MUSC provider, for example, a patient treated at MUSC for chest pain that does not 
have prior spinal radiation listed on their problem list in Epic. Finally, this checklist has been used successfully 
in other IRB-approved protocols in our laboratory and is a standard part of our informed consent workflow.  
This process will work in the following manner: During a preoperative clinic visit with the PI, an IRB-approved 
study member will ask the patient if they would like to learn more about the study. If so, the IRB-approved study 
member will complete the screening checklist then sign and date the form. If the subject meets all inclusion and 
exclusion criteria, the IRB-approved study member will review the protocol and consent form with the patient and 
then leave the room in order to give the patient sufficient time to read the consent form. 
Commented [NR3]: Still needs work 
Careful attention will be placed on good communication. It will be emphasized that participation in the study is 
not necessary for the standard of care surgery. It will also be emphasized that the patient can withdraw from the 
study at any time prior to the surgery.  
8.0 Consent Process 
Once the patient has been given an opportunity to review the consent form in detail, the IRB-approved study 
member will re-enter the room and go over the sections of the consent with the participant. They will answer any 
questions the patient may have. The voluntary nature of the study will again be emphasized. It will also be 
emphasized that the patient may exercise their right to take the consent form home to discuss with family and 
friends prior to signing. For patients that provide consent to the research study during their clinic visit, a copy of 
the signed and dated consent form will be provided to them before leaving the clinic. The IRB-approved study 
member will also review the HIPAA authorization form prior to the patient signing the form. The patient will be 
given a copy of this form. Original forms will be placed in a locked cabinet in a locked laboratory in the Clinical 
Sciences Building at MUSC. On the morning of surgery, IRB-approved study personnel will once again review 
the study procedures and study consent document – emphasizing the voluntary nature of the study and the 
ability of the patient to withdraw at any time. Patients who did not sign the consent and HIPAA authorization 
forms during their clinic visit and who still wish to participate in the study will be able to sign the forms on the 
morning of surgery, at which time a copy of the signed and dated forms will be provided to them. If not already 
signed by the PI, the PI will review and sign off on all checklists in order to provide continual oversight and 
supervision of our laboratory’s established protocol workflows.  
 
Patients will be informed during the consent process that information about them (including identifiable private 
information) may have all of their identifiers removed and used for future research studies or distributed to other 
researchers for future research without additional informed consent from them. For a summary of the steps 
detailing our recruitment and informed consent workflow, please see our uploaded documents:  
1) NR_Pro00089881_workflow_informed_consent_v01.pdf 
2) NR_Pro00089881_checklist_informed_consent_v01.docx 
3) NR_Pro00089881_checklist_screening_v01.docx. 
 
9.0 Study Design / Methods 
 
Step 1: Insertion of 4x8 stimulator paddle and intraoperative motor and sensory mapping 
Subjects will first be placed under general anesthesia for the procedure. Next, after positioning the subject on 
the operating room table, subdermal MEP, SSEP and EMG needle electrodes will be placed throughout the body 
by a board-certified neurophysiologist and as determined by standard of care guidelines. Once the paddle is 
placed epidurally, the terminals of the paddle will be connected to an electrophysiological recording device for 
signal amplification and filtering. Standard MEP and SSEP protocols will be performed to assist with paddle 
placement as per standard of care while signals from the paddle are recorded. After the IPG has been implanted,. 
both low-frequency tonic stimulation (LFTS) and high-frequency burst stimulation (HFBS) patterns will be 
activated while recording EMG signals. All subdermal electrodes will be removed prior to waking the subject. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 2: Stimulation configuration mapping in the supine position 
Following a 30-day recovery period from surgical placement of the paddle and IPG, subjects will undergo 
stimulation configuration mapping (SCM) in the <what location> in order to uncover electrode and parameter 
configurations that elicit more robust activation of targeted musculature. <this will take place in; do they need to 
be reimbursed for this?> For this testing, we place surface EMG pads on subjects’ skin overlying muscles of 
interest. Using the Boston Scientific external stimulator interface, we will compare muscle activation using LFTS 
and HFBS patterns by systematically testing each individual contact. Subjects will be seated comfortably in <?>. 
 
Step 3: Stimulation configuration mapping during walking 
Utilizing the <which laboratory?>, subjects will be outfitted with a ZeroG dynamic body weight support system 
<manufacturer, city> The ZeroG system ensures subject safety while allowing the research team to modulate 
the percentage of body weight supported by the subject. Subjects will perform walking tasks on a customized 
treadmill (Woodway split-belt treadmill with integrated therapist seating) that allows study staff experienced in 
locomotor training techniques to provide functional cues as necessary for task. All subjects will undergo 
continuous monitoring via EMG and 3-D kinematic tracking. As in step 2, LFTS and HFBS patterns will be 
compared by systematically testing each individual contact on the paddle while investigating for changes in 
stepping speed, pattern and EMG moduling complexity. 
 
Step 4: Investigation of proprioceptive signaling during stimulation 
 
All of the following shall take place after stimulation configuration mapping (SCM) has been completed. In order 
to better understand the effect HFBS has on orthodromic proprioceptive information, our research team plans to 
investigate the noticed change in knee joint angle and direction of movement reported by the subject in a 
Threshold to Detect Passive Movement (TTDPM) test. The TTDPM protocol will begin with the subject sitting in 
the Biodex testing seat, with the non-tested leg hanging freely and the tested leg strapped to the rotating arm of 
the dynamometer at the lower shank. It is important to note that the subject will be blinded as to the mode and 
intensity of stimulation: HFBS, LFTS, no stim. Furthermore, in order to shield the subject from witnessing 
initiation, direction and approximate distance traveled of the shank the subject will be asked to wear a blindfold 
Figure 3: Example of a subject 
undergoing proprioception 
testing of right lower extremity 
via TTDPM.22  
and headphones playing a soft background noise (Figure 3). LFTS and HFBS parameters used throughout the 
TTDPM will be found when conducting the supine portion of the SCM, considering the TTDPM protocol does not 
dynamically load the lower extremities (See Step 2). Stimulation parameters that elicit the strongest responses 
with greater muscle isolation will be used to calculate the 0.8, and 1.5 times motor threshold amplitudes. 
Electrode configurations will be chosen by hotspots from supine mapping that elicited the most robust 
flexor/extensor muscles surrounding the knee for the entirety of the test. The TTDPM will consist of 35 trials of 
each amplitude stage for each independent mode of EES with an equivalent number of No Stim trials randomly 
substituted. Upon starting of a new trial the subject will experience a tap on the 
shoulder to signal initiation, without confirmation of the previous trial’s outcome. The 
Biodex will pause initiating movement of the shank for an investigator determined 
amount of time between 1s-30s as to further decrease any confounding anticipation 
from the subject. Testing will involve equal randomized events of flexion/extension 
that will have limits of 15 ROM for either direction, and an angular velocity of 1/s. 
The subject will be asked to report any perceived change in knee angle, and which 
direction the shank is travelling. Reported movements will be marked within the data 
collection program of the Biodex for x of movement before reporting, with reported 
direction noted as well. The subject has control of a kill-switch that immediately halts 
movement of the rotating arm, which is to be activated once the subject perceives 
movement OR if the subject begins to feel any pain or discomfort throughout the 
task. The subject will not be informed as to whether their report was correct or 
incorrect for previous trials. Our research team anticipates data collection to last no longer than 3 hours per 
subject. The research team plans to use a repeated measures two-way ANOVA with epidural stimulation type 
and current amplitude of above and below muscle activation threshold to investigate effects on proprioception 
retention. Post hoc comparisons will be run using a Turkey adjustment. Furthermore, the research team can also 
us a paired t-test for stimulator off vs stimulator off for ~ 45 minutes, possibly revealing any information of carry 
over effect from either mode of stimulation which could be of paramount importance for future studies involving 
SCS for SCI.  
 
Step 5: Investigation of muscle synergies facilitating gait during stimulation 
 
For EMG module analysis, muscle activity will be recorded bilaterally via surface EMG from the medial 
gastrocnemius, soleus, tibialis anterior, rectus femoris, vastus medialis, biceps femoris, semimembranosus and 
gluteus medius. First, subjects will walk across a gait mat (GaitRite, CIR Systems, Inc.) to measure self-selected 
overground walking speed and other spatiotemporal gait parameters. Subjects will then be permitted to practice 
treadmill walking until they feel comfortable. To optimize capture of steady state data on the treadmill, each 
subject will walk for approximately 10 sec prior to the 30 sec of data collection (40 sec per trial). This will allow 
capture of at least 10 consecutive steady state gait cycles (depending on cadence) per each amplitude selection 
for each stimulation delivery technique, which will be defined by parameters found during walking SCM. Subjects 
will participate in walking trials while experiencing both below and above motor threshold current amplitudes, in 
separate trials, as discovered during walking SCM. We will allow as much rest as needed between trials, but not 
less than 2 minutes. For all trials, subjects will wear their own low-heeled shoes. A safety harness (Robertson 
Mountaineering) mounted to the laboratory ceiling will be worn by the participant to protect them in the event of 
loss of balance. Through EMG capture and high/low bandpass filtering to extinguish biologic artifact and 
equipment artifact respectively, segments of EMG that were recorded through functional task can be analyzed 
with an algorithm that yields hierarchal complexities indicative of proper muscle synergy’s.16-18 The research team 
will use previously outlined methodology to define modules through non-negative matrix factorization, where 
analysis will be applied to consecutive gait cycles.19 The research team plans to use a two-way repeated 
measures ANOVA model in order to investigate the varying differences in stimulation type, self-selected walking 
speed vs fastest comfortable walking speed and EMG module complexity. A Post hoc comparison will be made 
using a Turkey adjustment. 
 
10.0 
Data Management 
Once a potential participant is asked if they would like to learn more about the study, they will be assigned a 
participant ID. Participant IDs will be assigned consecutively. We will maintain a database that accurately reflects 
all the patients that were approached about the study and the results of eligibility evaluation (screen failure vs 
enrolled). For enrolled subjects, the specific types of data that will be collected include: 1) analog local field 
Commented [NR4]: I would try to pare this down 
significantly, like just the scm and that’s it or try to 
combine to make it seem like less 
potentials from the SCS, MEP, SSEP and EMG electrodes, 2) digital and analog output signals from the <Jess’s 
device>, 3) videography data, and 4) any available imaging data (dicom files). <what about data from the other 
devices: digital kinematic data from 3-D tracking system software these are probably accelerometer position data 
with timestamps> Raw data will remain on our lab-owned data acquisition machines with encrypted hard drives 
and stored behind a locked door when not directly supervised. Data will be copied from all lab-owned data 
acquisition machines and/or hospital-owned data servers to a password protected network server accessible 
from our lab under the IRB protocol number and participant ID. This will constitute the master copy of all data for 
the lab and will consist of separately stored coded and identifiable folders. The purpose of keeping a copy of the 
raw data is in case the server in our lab is interrupted and it is necessary to reconstruct the data. Portions of data 
will be copied to end-user devices (e.g., desktop, laptop, etc) for data analysis, however only the portion needed 
for analysis will be copied. Any end-user device such as a laptop that physically leaves the lab will be encrypted 
(while desktop machines used for analysis that do not leave the lab and are stored in a locked laboratory will not 
be encrypted). All data on data acquisition and end-user devices will be deleted at the conclusion of the study. 
A linking database associating the participant ID and patient identifiers will be maintained on MUSC Box, 
separately from the research data. Patient identifiers to be collected include first and last name, gender, date of 
birth, medical record number, and telephone numbers. Telephone and medical record numbers are required for 
the 7-day phone call. Findings from the phone call will be stored in the linking database. Additionally we will 
collect information pertaining to disease severity for each subject, including year of diagnosis and any available 
rating scale scores. These measures will assist in correlating our physiological data with severity of disease for 
each subject. Videography data will be stored in the identifiable folder on the password protected network server. 
The purpose of this data is to correlate movement dynamics with physiology data. Finally, we will save imaging 
data on a password protected network server in order to analyze and correlate with our physiological data. Only 
IRB-approved personnel will have access to the linking database. Consent forms will be stored in a locked 
cabinet in a locked laboratory in the Clinical Sciences Building at MUSC. For a summary of the steps detailing 
our 
data 
management 
workflow, 
please 
see 
our 
uploaded 
documents: 
NR_Pro00089881_workflow_data_management_v01.pdf. I think here you should put the followup checklist 
 
 
11.0 
Provisions to Monitor the Data to Ensure the Safety of Subjects 
 
Data and Safety Monitoring Plan 
The proposed research involves use of a neural stimulation device and warrants oversight by a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board (DSMB). The primary purpose of the DSMB is to ensure the safety of participants and the 
validity and integrity of data collected during the study. The overall framework involves biannual review of the 
enrollment, safety and adverse event data, and quality control data by the DSMB throughout the period of the 
proposed research. 
 
DSMB composition 
The DSMB will be appointed by the PI and will be composed of individuals who are not on the study team and 
have the following qualifications: (1) a board-certified Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Physician that 
specializes in spinal cord injury, and regularly treats patients with chronic SCI, (2) a biostatistician with expertise 
in design and analysis of clinical trials and (3) a clinical electrophysiologist with expertise in electrical 
neuromodulation and intraoperative monitoring. These three individuals bring substantial expertise adequate to 
monitor data and safety for the proposed research. 
 
DSMB responsibilities 
The responsibilities of the DSMB are as follows. Prior to any enrollment, the DSMB will review the study design, 
protocol, recruitment/enrollment plan, statistical analysis plan, and data and safety monitoring plan. Once 
enrollment begins, the DSMB will convene every 6 months to review the enrollment data, the safety and adverse 
event data and quality control data (see below for detailed data description). The DSMB will review the 
aggregated summary data as well as the individual participants’ data (de-identified). The DSMB may provide 
recommendations for any safety concerns. The DSMB may recommend stopping the study early if the protocol 
has significant safety concerns. The DSMB will review the results and document their reviews in writing. In 
summary, the stopping rules are if the study has unanticipated safety concerns. The DSMB will also be able to 
make recommendations for appropriate action to maintain a reasonable safety profile for the study. The PI will 
provide a report for the IRB to review that summarizes oversight activities, DSMB recommendations and any 
concerns regarding participant safety. 
 
Safety reporting to the DSMB 
Subjects may report safety issues with the study directly to the PI, any member of the PI’s clinical and/or 
research teams, the MUSC Family Care Liaison, the IRB and/or ORI Director. In the absence of any such 
reports, the PI will systematically attempt to uncover any safety issues experienced by a subject during the one 
week follow-up phone call and/or 30-day chart review. Any of the following will be reported to the DSMB if 
noted by the subject during the one week follow-up phone call: severe lower back or leg pain unresponsive to 
pain medication, repeated falls/imbalance, excessive bleeding from wounds, lower back irritation or bleeding 
around the site of paddle or IPG implant and/or return to the hospital. Any of the following will be reported to 
the DSMB if noted during the 30-day chart review: return to hospital, evaluation by another provider for findings 
related to spinal cord stimulation surgery, imaging, lab values and/or other reports indicating complications 
from spinal cord stimulation surgery. All the above-mentioned issues are outside of what would be reasonably 
expected for a normal postoperative course following spinal cord stimulation surgery. In accordance with 
HRPP Section 4.7, all the above-mentioned issues constitute adverse events and will be submitted to the 
DSMB for review (at 6 month intervals) in addition to being recorded in the adverse events log. Events that are 
unexpected, related or possibly related to a subject’s participation in the research and suggests that the 
research places subjects or others at greater risk of harm than was previously known or recognized constitute 
Unanticipated Problems Involving Risks to Subjects or Others (UPIRSOs) and must be reported directly to the 
IRB (in addition to the DSMB). Finally, all deaths will be reported to the IRB within 24 hours of learning of the 
death, unless the death is expected (e.g., due to disease progression). 
 
For a summary of our documentation and compliance procedures, please see “ “ 
 
12.0 
Withdrawal of Subjects 
Subjects may be withdrawn from the study without their consent, including stopping participation for safety 
reasons. For example, if at any point during the protocol it becomes evident that continuing with the study would 
present risk in excess of that outlined in this document, data collection for that subject may be terminated. 
However, any data collected during research events before the incident may still be used in analysis. At any 
time, subjects may also express desire to withdraw from the study. We will instruct the patients that, to withdraw 
from the study, all they need to do is to contact one of the members of the study team and express the desire to 
be excluded from the study. 
 
13.0 
Risks to Subjects 
All procedures follow current standard of care guidelines. Research staff will follow up with each participant by 
phone within a week of the surgical procedure to make sure the participants are not having any problems. 
Nevertheless, this study still poses certain risks as outlined in the following sections: 
 
Subdermal placement of MEP, SSEP and EMG electrodes 
<get this language from Jess> 
 
 
What about the passive movement? Dynamometer? 
 
Overground and Treadmill Walking  
Subjects will be asked to walk on a Gaitrite mat on the ground at self-selected walking speeds, and on a treadmill 
at self-selected walking speeds with each scenario having the patient in an upper thoracic safety harness which 
is tethered to the ceiling for fall protection. The risk to subjects through these tasks do not exceed risks involved 
with general physical therapy settings and may result in mild muscle fatigue or discomfort that generally subsides 
within a few days. Subjects will be given ample rest time and may have additional rest time at any point 
throughout data collection periods. Furthermore, subjects will be assisted during large movements or during 
potential transfers across different surfaces. Despite the aforementioned safety measures, there still exists a risk 
of loss of balance, fall and potential injury. 
Deleted: followup
Deleted: followup
Commented [NR5]: Taylor will need to edit these 
documents 
Photography and videography 
Patients will be videotaped during performance of the configuration mapping, TTDPM and EMG moduling 
protocols. We will also photograph and/or videotape any other aspect of the subject’s research participation that 
will help us correlate the patient’s condition with the EMG and kinematic data. The videos and photos we record 
can include the full face, upper body, arms, and legs. Photography and videography carry a risk of loss of privacy. 
Photos and videos will be stored on a secure server. Only approved study personnel will have access to these 
files. 
Loss of Confidentiality 
Additional risks include loss of confidentiality. To mitigate this risk, a linking database associating the participant 
ID and patient identifiers will be maintained separately from the research data on a password protected server 
and only IRB-approved personnel will have access to the linking database. 
 
14.0 
Potential Benefit to Subjects or Others 
This research is not expected to provide direct benefit to individual subjects, though it may lead to improvements 
in care for patients suffering from chronic pain and SCI in the future. A successful study outcome may contribute 
to this improvement and may be used in future subjects undergoing similar procedures. 
 
15.0 
Sharing of Results with Subjects 
Due to the extensive amount of time needed for data processing, it will not be possible to disclose individual 
study results to subjects or their healthcare providers. Incidental findings and other results of diagnostic tests 
associated with routine care of subjects will be shared with the subject and their physician by phone, writing 
and/or electronic medical record communication by the PI. 
 
16.0 
Drugs or Devices 
The SCS paddle and IPG (FDA-approved, packaged as a single-implant sterile device, designed and marketed 
for permanent implant in the epidural space in contact with the dura of the dorsal spinal cord) will be provided at 
the time of surgery by Boston Scientific. 
 
17.0 
References 
 
1. Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) Facts and Figures at a Glance 2016 SCI Data Sheet Non-Hispanic White Non-
Hispanic Black Hispanic Origin. (2016). Retrieved from https://www.nscisc.uab.edu/Public/Facts 
2016.pdf 
2. Krause, J. S., Saladin, L. K., & Adkins, R. H. (2009). IOS Press Disparities in subjective 
well-being, participation, and health after spinal cord injury: A 6-year longitudinal study. 
NeuroRehabilitation, 24, 47–56. https://doi.org/10.3233/NRE-2009-0453 
3. Harkema, S., Hodes, J., Angeli, C., Chen, Y., Ferreira, C., Willhite, A. B., … Grossman, R. G. (2011). 
Articles Eff ect of epidural stimulation of the lumbosacral spinal cord on voluntary movement, standing, 
and assisted stepping after motor complete paraplegia: a case study. The Lancet, 377, 1938–1947. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140 
4. Gill, M. L., Grahn, P. J., Calvert, J. S., Linde, M. B., Lavrov, I. A., Strommen, J. A., … Zhao, K. D. (2018). 
Neuromodulation of lumbosacral spinal networks enables independent stepping after complete 
paraplegia. Nature Medicine. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41591-018-0175-7 
5. Wagner, F. B., Mignardot, J. B., Le Goff-Mignardot, C. G., Demesmaeker, R., Komi, S., Capogrosso, M., 
… Courtine, G. (2018). Targeted neurotechnology restores walking in humans with spinal cord injury. 
Nature. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-018-0649-2 
6. Formento, E., Minassian, K., Wagner, F., Baptiste Mignardot, J., Le Goff-Mignardot, C. G., Rowald, A., 
… Courtine, G. (n.d.). Electrical spinal cord stimulation must preserve proprioception to enable 
locomotion in humans with spinal cord injury. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41593-018-0262-6 
Commented [NR6]: reformat 
7. Miller, J. P., Eldabe, S., Buchser, E., Johanek, L. M., Guan, Y., & Linderoth, B. (n.d.). Parameters of 
Spinal 
Cord 
Stimulation 
and 
Their 
Role 
in 
Electrical 
Charge 
Delivery: 
A 
Review. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/ner.12438 
8. Routson, R. L., Clark, D. J., Bowden, M. G., Kautz, S. A., & Neptune, R. R. (2013). The influence of 
locomotor rehabilitation on module quality and post-stroke hemiparetic walking performance. Gait & 
Posture, 38, 511–517. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gaitpost.2013.01.020 
9. Pickett, G. E., Campos-Benitez, M., Keller, J. L., & Duggal, N. (2006). Epidemiology of traumatic spinal 
cord injury in Canada. Spine. https://doi.org/10.1097/01.brs.0000207258.80129.03 
10. Devivo, M. J., & Chen, Y. (2011). Trends in new injuries, prevalent cases, and aging with spinal cord 
injury. 
Archives 
of 
Physical 
Medicine 
and 
Rehabilitation, 
92(3), 
332–338. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apmr.2010.08.031 
11. Fehlings, M. G., Shaffrey, C. I., Wilson, J. R., Grossman, R. G., Toups, E. G., Guest, J. D., … Harrop, J. 
S. (2018). Natural History, Predictors of Outcome, and Effects of Treatment in Thoracic Spinal Cord 
Injury: A Multi-Center Cohort Study from the North American Clinical Trials Network. Journal of 
Neurotrauma, 35(21), 2554–2560. https://doi.org/10.1089/neu.2017.5535 
12. Behrman, A. L., & Harkema, S. J. (2007). Physical Rehabilitation as an Agent for Recovery After Spinal 
Cord Injury. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Clinics of North America, 18(2), 183–202. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmr.2007.02.002 
13. Harkema, S. J., Schmidt-Read, M., Lorenz, D. J., Edgerton, V. R., & Behrman, A. L. (2012). Balance and 
ambulation improvements in individuals with chronic incomplete spinal cord injury using locomotor 
trainingbased rehabilitation. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 93(9), 1508–1517. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apmr.2011.01.024 
14. Angeli, C. A., Boakye, M., Morton, R. A., Vogt, J., Benton, K., Chen, Y., … Harkema, S. J. (2018). 
Recovery of Over-Ground Walking after Chronic Motor Complete Spinal Cord Injury. New England 
Journal of Medicine. https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1803588 
 
15. Cheung, V. C. K. (2005). Central and Sensory Contributions to the Activation and Organization of Muscle 
Synergies 
during 
Natural 
Motor 
Behaviors. 
Journal 
of 
Neuroscience. 
https://doi.org/10.1523/jneurosci.4904-04.2005 
 
16. Neptune, R. R., Clark, D. J., & Kautz, S. A. (2009). Modular control of human walking: A simulation study. 
Journal of Biomechanics, 42(9), 1282–1287. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbiomech.2009.03.009 
 
17. Bowden, M. G., Clark, D. J., & Kautz, S. A. (2010). Evaluation of abnormal synergy patterns poststroke: 
Relationship of the fugl-meyer assessment to hemiparetic locomotion. Neurorehabilitation and Neural 
Repair. https://doi.org/10.1177/1545968309343215 
 
18. Merkle, L. A., Layne, C. S., Bloomberg, J. J., & Zhang, J. J. (1998). Using factor analysis to identify 
neuromuscular 
synergies 
during 
treadmill 
walking. 
Journal 
of 
Neuroscience 
Methods. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0165-0270(98)00054-5 
 
19. Clark, D. J., Ting, L. H., Zajac, F. E., Neptune, R. R., & Kautz, S. A. (2010). Merging of Healthy Motor 
Modules Predicts Reduced Locomotor Performance and Muscle Coordination Complexity Post-Stroke. 
J Neurophysiol, 103, 844–857. https://doi.org/10.1152/jn.00825.2009 
 
20. Boston Scientific. (n.d.). SCS Lead Portfolio. Retrieved July 06, 2019, from 
https://www.bostonscientific.com/content/gwc/en-US/products/spinal-cord-stimulator-
systems/scs_lead_portfolio.html 
 
21. Boston Scientific. (2019). Spectra Wavewriter Spinal Cord Stimulator System, Information for 
Prescribers[Brochure]. Author. Retrieved July 06, 2019, from 
https://www.bostonscientific.com/content/dam/Manuals/us/current-rev-en/92256650-
01_Spectra_WaveWriter™_SCS_System_en-US_s.pdf 
 
22. Nagai, T., Sell, T. C., House, A. J., Abt, J. P., & Lephart, S. M. (2013). Knee proprioception and 
strength and landing kinematics during a single-leg stop-jump task. Journal of Athletic Training, 48(1), 
31–38. https://doi.org/10.4085/1062-6050-48.1.14 
 
23.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
