STUDY: A Phase 3 Open-label Safety Trial of PH94B Nasal Spray in the Acute Treatment of Anxiety in Adult Subjects With Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD)
NCT: NCT05030350
Phase: ['PHASE3']
Most but not all patients will enter the study following completion of Palisade-1 (NCT047548020) and Palisade-2 (NCT05011396).

Inclusion Criteria:

1. Male and female adults, 18 through 65 years of age, inclusive.
2. Women of childbearing potential must be able to commit to the consistent and correct use of an effective method of birth control throughout the study, and must also have a negative urine pregnancy test result at both Screening (Visit 1) (for subjects who attend Visit 1) and Baseline (Visit 2), prior to IP administration. Effective methods of contraception include: condoms with spermicide, diaphragm with spermicide, hormonal contraceptive agents (oral, transdermal, or injectable), or implantable contraceptive devices.
3. Current diagnosis of social anxiety disorder
4. Clinician-rated HAM-D17 total score \< 18 at study entry
5. LSAS score 50 or greater

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Any history of bipolar disorder (I or II), schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, psychosis, anorexia or bulimia, autism-spectrum disorder, or obsessive-compulsive disorder. Any other current Axis I disorder, other than SAD, which is the primary focus of treatment. Note that subjects with concurrent Generalized Anxiety Disorder are eligible for the study provided that Generalized Anxiety Disorder is not the primary diagnosis.
2. Subjects who meet criteria for moderate or severe alcohol or substance use disorder within the 1 year prior to study entry.
3. In the opinion of the Investigator, the subject has a significant risk for suicidal behavior during the course of their participation in the study.
4. Clinically significant nasal pathology or history of significant nasal trauma, nasal surgery, total anosmia, or nasal septum perforation that may have damaged the nasal chemosensory epithelium.
5. An acute or chronic condition, including an infectious illness, uncontrolled seasonal allergies at the time of the study, or significant nasal congestion that potentially could affect drug
This study evaluates the safety and tolerability of PH94B with repeated dosing over a period of up to 12 months. Participating subjects will use PH94B up to 4 times a day when they encounter anxiety-provoking situations in daily life. Safety and tolerability of PH94B (≤ 4 doses per day up to 12 months) will be assessed and summarized during monthly visits from baseline (Visit 2) to end of treatment (Visit 14) in AEs, laboratory values, 12-lead ECGs, physical examinations, and vital sign assessments following exposure to PH94B.