STUDY: Phase I/II, International, Multicentre, Open-label, Non-randomised, Non-comparative, Study Evaluating the Safety, Tolerability and Clinical Activity of Intravenously Administered S64315, a Selective Mcl-1 Inhibitor, in Combination With Azacitidine in Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukaemia (AML)
NCT: NCT04629443
Phase: ['PHASE1', 'PHASE2']
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Patients aged ≥ 18 years
2. Patients with cytologically confirmed and documented de novo, secondary or therapy-related AML as defined by World Health Organization 2016 classification (Arber, 2016) excluding acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL, French American-British M3 classification) with: relapsed or refractory disease and without established alternative therapy, or secondary to MyeloDysplastic Syndrome and without established alternative therapy or, newly diagnosed AML, not previously treated for AML and who are not candidate for intensive chemotherapy due to age or comorbidities.
3. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status ≤ 2.
4. Adequate haematological, renal and hepatic functions based on the last assessment performed within 7 days prior to the first Investigational Medicinal Product administration.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Previous myeloproliferative syndrome (MPS).
2. Patients previously treated with any Mcl-1 inhibitor.
3. Patients who have not recovered from toxicity of previous anticancer therapy, including Grade ≥ 2 toxicity (except alopecia of any grade) according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event (NCI CTCAE) version 5.0, prior to the first IMP administration.
4. Severe or uncontrolled active acute or chronic infection.
5. Uncontrolled hepatitis B or C infection.
6. Known carriers of HIV antibodies, history of significant liver disease, active acute or chronic pancreatitis, active central nervous system disease.
7. Troponin \> ULN (Upper Limit of reference range) or Troponin T \> ULN if Troponin I cannot be assessed.
8. Clinically significant cardiac dysfunction (including New York Heart Association class ≥II heart failure, Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF) \< 50% as assessed by echocardiography (ECHO) or Multi-Gated Acquisition (MUGA) scan).
9. QT prolongation defined as QTc (QT interval corrected for heart rate) interval (corrected with Fridericia's formu
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability and clinical activity of the combination S64315 with azacitidine in patients with acute myeloid leukaemia.