STUDY: A Phase 3, 4-Week, Parallel Group, Double Blind, Vehicle-Controlled Study of the Safety and Efficacy of ARQ-151 Cream 0.15% Administered QD in Subjects With Atopic Dermatitis
NCT: NCT04773600
Phase: ['PHASE3']
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Participants legally competent to sign and give informed consent and, if appropriate, assent as required by local laws.
2. Males and females, ages 6 years and older at time of signing Informed Consent (Screening). Only subjects 18 years and older will be enrolled at sites located in the province of Québec in Canada.
3. Diagnosed with atopic dermatitis 6 months duration (3 months for children), as determined by the Investigator. Stable disease for the past 4 weeks with no significant flares in atopic dermatitis before screening.
4. Females of childbearing potential (FOCBP) must have a negative serum pregnancy test at Screening and a negative urine pregnancy test at Baseline/Day 1. In addition, sexually active FOCBP must agree to use at least one form of a highly effective or barrier method of contraception throughout the trial.
5. In good health as judged by the Investigator.
6. Subjects considered reliable and capable of adhering to the Protocol and visit schedule, according to the judgment of the Investigator.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Subjects with any serious medical condition or clinically significant abnormality that would prevent study participation or place the subject at significant risk, as judged by the Investigator
2. Has unstable AD or any consistent requirement for high potency topical steroids.
3. Subjects who are unwilling to refrain from prolonged sun exposure and from using a tanning bed or other artificial light emitting devices (LEDs) for 4 weeks prior to Baseline/Day 1 and during the study.
4. Females who are pregnant, wishing to become pregnant during the study, or are breast-feeding.
5. Previous treatment with ARQ-151.
6. Subjects with a history of chronic alcohol or drug abuse within 6 months prior to Screening.
7. Parent(s)/legal guardian(s) who are unable to communicate, read, or understand the local language(s). Subjects who are unable to communicate, read or understand the local language, or who display another condi
This study will assess the safety and efficacy of ARQ-151 cream vs vehicle applied once a day for 4 weeks by subjects with atopic dermatitis (eczema). This is a parallel group, double blind, vehicle-controlled study in which ARQ-151 0.15% cream or vehicle is applied once daily (qd) for 4 weeks by participants with atopic dermatitis.