STUDY: COVID-19: A PHASE 1, OPEN-LABEL, 3-TREATMENT, 6-SEQUENCE, 3-PERIOD CROSSOVER STUDY TO ESTIMATE THE EFFECT OF PF-07321332/RITONAVIR AND RITONAVIR ON THE PHARMACOKINETICS OF MIDAZOLAM IN HEALTHY PARTICIPANTS.
NCT: NCT05032950
Phase: ['PHASE1']
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Female participants of childbearing potential must have a negative (urine or serum) pregnancy test.
2. Body mass index (BMI) of 17.5 to 30.5 kg/m2; and a total body weight \>50 kg (110 lb).

   \-

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Positive test result for SARS-CoV-2 infection at the time of Screening or Day -1.
2. Evidence or history of clinically significant hematological, renal, endocrine, pulmonary, gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, hepatic, psychiatric, neurological, or allergic disease (including drug allergies, but excluding untreated, asymptomatic, seasonal allergies at the time of dosing).
3. Clinically relevant abnormalities requiring treatment (eg, acute myocardial infarction, unstable ischemic conditions, evidence of ventricular dysfunction, serious tachy or brady arrhythmias) or indicating serious underlying heart disease (eg, prolonged PR interval, cardiomyopathy, heart failure greater than New York Heart Association (NYHA) 1, underlying structural heart disease, Wolff Parkinson-White syndrome).
4. Any condition possibly affecting drug absorption (eg, gastrectomy, cholecystectomy).
5. History of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, hepatitis B, or hepatitis C; positive testing for HIV, HBsAg, or hepatitis C virus (HCVAb). Hepatitis B vaccination is allowed.
6. Other medical or psychiatric condition including recent (within the past year) or active suicidal ideation/behavior or laboratory abnormality or other conditions or situations related to COVID-19 pandemic (eg, Contact with positive case, residence, or travel to an area with high incidence) that may increase the risk of study participation or, in the investigator's judgment, make the participant inappropriate for the study.
The purpose of this study is to estimate the effect PF-07321332/Ritonavir and Ritonavir on Midazolam (a cytochrome P450 \[CYP\]3A4 substrate) in Healthy Adult Participants.