Scale-Up COUNTS Statistical Analysis Plan
07/18/2024
Clinical Trial Registration: NCT05112900
1:2
•
1
BACKGROUND
Starting in March 2020, most schools throughout the United States temporarily closed to mitigate the spread of
the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic (COVID-19). COVID-19 testing emerged as a critical tool for schools to
determine when they could provide in-person instruction and activities. Yet, providing this service presented
challenges, including the need for frequent testing events and/or test access, lack of staff time and training to
provide testing guidance, and the need to respond to changes in COVID-19 testing and mitigation guidance.
The SCALE-UP COUNTS study was designed to address key testing barriers faced within the school setting on
when and how testing should be performed. The intervention was bi-directional text messaging (TM) to provide
guidance and reminders designed to promote COVID-19 testing among K-12 school students and their families
and school staff members. As the trial progressed, we observed a lower response rate to the testing outcome than
anticipated. The purpose of this analysis plan is to describe the trial’s original estimand of interest, disruptions to
the trial design and updates to the estimand of interest, and the end statistical analysis plan. Working with key
stakeholders was critical for adjusting to the COVID disruptions.
2
KEY STAKEHOLDERS
The Food and Drug Administration’s published guidance on estimands [2], describes the importance of aligning
the clinical trial estimand (quantity of interest) with the objectives of key stakeholders. Key stakeholders included
the Utah Department of Health, the Granite and Salt Lake City School Districts, participating charter schoools,
and the Principal Investigators of the grant proposal (Wu and Wetter).
3
ORIGINAL ESTIMAND (TM VS TM+MAPS):
The original objective was to test whether TM versus TM+HN would differentially (a) Increase the proportion of
students tested out of those who meet the criteria for testing and (b) Decrease missed school days. The five key
elements of the estimand included:
(1) Population: Families with students in the Granite and Salt Lake City School District and participating
charter schools
Scale-Up COUNTS Statistical Analysis Plan
•
1:3
(2) Treatment: Receipt of TM with or without a health navigator who would call and address barriers faced
in testing
(3) Endpoints: 30-day testing evaluated repeatedly by household and missed school days
(4) Intercurrent events (ICE): Change of phone number and apathy or inability to report when either
asymptomatic and unexposed or symptomatic. In the primary analysis, we take an Intention-to-Treat
approach to unobserved outcomes which we assume to be Missing at Random (MAR). In sensitivity
analyses, we consider pattern mixture models (under MAR) and plausible outcome conjectures (under a
Missing Not at Random assumption - MNAR) to address possible differences in self-reported outcomes
by treatment arm.
(5) Population-level summary: relative testing rate and rate of missed school days.
4
ORIGINAL STUDY DESIGN AND MODIFICATIONS:
The trial was designed to be cluster-randomized, enrolling at least 50% of students from each of 26 schools. Type
I error would be split evenly (0.025) for each co-primary outcome. The first phase of treatment would be 80% to
TM with the anticipation that a sufficient number of TM households would be randomized to TM+HN vs TM
with no HN when they declare having symptoms but do not request a test. We assumed a baseline testing rate for
TM of 50% and a 15% missing-school rate. Under an intraclass correlation coefficient of 0.02, the trial was 80%
powered to detect an increase of 9.2% in testing and a decrease of 6.1% in missed school days.
5
CHANGES TO THE STUDY DESIGN
For logistical reasons, SCALE-UP COUNTS had multiple adaptions to the trial design and estimands of interest.
Key stakeholders remained in frequent communication and alignment regarding these changes.
First, because of the low response rates to outcomes assessments and low uptake of HN, the interventions of
interest changed to any TM (i.e., from TM or TM+HN) versus usual care (UC). The first-phase allocation ratio
changed to 1:1 (from 5:1). Outcomes would still be collected from both arms through text messaging; and, the
trial designed a REDCap survey sent to families every month which would ask about testing rates and missed
school days. Second, because we were able to make at-home test kits available to all staff, parents/guardians, and
1:4
•
students, and because we decided to provide HN remotely, SCALE-UP COUNTS was able to randomize within
schools at the household contact-level with a low risk of contamination. Third, because Salt Lake City School
District’s enrollment was on an opt-in basis, it was determined to use this district to supplement the Granite
School District and charter schools as a descriptive analysis.
6
NEW ESTIMAND (TM VS UC):
With the above modifications, the trial objective became to test whether TM versus UC would differentially (a)
Increase the proportion of students tested out of those who meet the criteria for testing and (b) Decrease missed
school days. The former would be considered the primary endpoint with the latter a secondary endpoint; both to
be tested at alpha of 0.05. The five key elements of the estimand included:
(1) Population: Families with students in the Granite School District and participating charter schools
(2) Treatment: Receipt of TM versus usual care
(3) Endpoints: 30-day testing evaluated repeatedly by household (primary) and missed school days (secondary)
(4) Intercurrent events (ICE): Change of phone number and apathy or inability to report when either
asymptomatic and unexposed or symptomatic. In the primary analysis, we take an Intention-to-Treat
approach to unobserved outcomes which we assume to be Missing at Random (MAR). In sensitivity
analyses, we consider pattern mixture models (under MAR) and plausible outcome conjectures (under a
Missing Not at Random assumption - MNAR) to address possible differences in self-reported outcomes
by treatment arm.
(5) Population-level summary: relative testing rate (RTR) and rate of missed school days.
Each household contact, indexed as 𝑖= 1, . . . ,𝑛, received treatment 𝑍𝑖= {0 = 𝑈𝐶, 1 = 𝑇𝑀} and was assessed
a variable number of follow-up times 𝑗= 1, . . . , 𝑀𝑖times. Respectively, 𝑛𝑈𝐶and 𝑛𝑇𝑀indviduals received 𝑈𝐶
and 𝑇𝑀. Households were enrolled in one of two allocation eras 𝐴𝑖= {0 = 80% to 𝑇𝑀, 1 = 50% to 𝑇𝑀}. In each
assessment, the household contact was asked whether any household member tested for COVID positivity in the
past 30 days; i.e., the potential outcome 𝑌𝑖𝑗(𝑍) = {0 = 𝑛𝑜, 1 = 𝑦𝑒𝑠} denotes any 30-day testing within household
𝑖during their 𝑗𝑡ℎassessment under treatment 𝑍. Because the prevalence of COVID changed over time, it is
anticipated that testing will depend upon an assessment’s calendar time, 𝐶𝑖𝑗. The summary of interest is the
Scale-Up COUNTS Statistical Analysis Plan
•
1:5
population-level RTR over calendar time in which all calendar time is of equal interest (i.e, 𝑓(𝐶) is uniformly
distributed over all calendar time of data collection irrespective of treatment arm).
𝑅𝑇𝑅=
∫
𝐶𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 1,𝐶𝑖𝑗]𝑓(𝐶)𝑑𝐶
∫
𝐶𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 0,𝐶𝑖𝑗]𝑓(𝐶)𝑑𝐶
Because the trial enrolled under two eras of different allocation, we will estimate the RTR stratified by the
allocation era and pooled by the inverse variance of the estimates. The motivation for this strategy is detailed in
the next section.
For the missed school days outcome, 𝑌𝑖𝑗(𝑍) denotes the number of missed school days in the past 30 days for
the first household’s first enrolled child. This child’s outcomes were chosen because it was the most likely to
have data (being listed first in surveys) and because it reflects the family’s first exposure the study. The quantity
of interest is the Relative Missed Days in past 30 days (RMD30) and is similar to the RTR:
𝑅𝑀𝐷30 =
∫
𝐶𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 1,𝐶𝑖𝑗]𝑓(𝐶)𝑑𝐶
∫
𝐶𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 0,𝐶𝑖𝑗]𝑓(𝐶)𝑑𝐶
7
ENROLLMENT ALLOCATION ERAS
Prior to 7/20/2022, patients in the study were enrolled with a 5:1 allocation ratio favoring TM. After 7/20/22, the
allocation ratio changed to 1:1. As a consequence, there is a risk that patients are not equally balanced between
arms on key covariates. Compared to UC, TM patients were more heavily enrolled in the earlier allocation period.
If a time trend were to have a minimal impact on the outcome, this difference in enrollment times by arm could
be inconsequential. However, the COUNTS study added twice as many new schools after the allocation change.
Patients in the TM arm are enrolled to a greater extent in the earlier schools than in the UC arm, and any observed
treatment differences could be confounded by differences attributable to schools.
Schools enrolled prior to July 2022 allocation change:
(1) Calvin Smith Elementary
(2) Rolling Meadows Elementary
(3) Taylorsville Elementary
1:6
•
(4) Morningside Elementary
(5) Olympus Sr. High
(6) Pioneer Elementary
Schools enrolled after allocation change:
(1) Winter Sports School
(2) Silver Hills Elementary
(3) Hillsdale Elementary
(4) Monroe Elementary
(5) Western Hills Elementary
(6) Utah County Academy of Sciences (UCAS, two locations Orem and Provo)
(7) Evergreen Junior High
(8) Bonneville Junior High
(9) West Kearns El
(10) Oakridge El
Scale-Up COUNTS Statistical Analysis Plan
•
1:7
In our analysis, we are adjusting for follow-up calendar time. We looked at the average enrollment date among
follow-up assessments across calendar time; however, this did not give reassurance of improved balance between
arms.
These investigations suggest that the allocation period could be a meaningful confounder, especially given that
roughly 2/3rds of schools were enrolled during the second allocation period. Hence, we will stratify by allocation
period and pool RTR estimates using inverse-variance weighting.
8
ESTIMATION AND ANALYSIS PLAN FOR TESTING OUTCOME (RTR)
8.1
Primary analysis - observed observations and Missing At Random (MAR) assumption
For the primary analysis, we will perform an Intention to Treat analysis and assume unobserved outcomes are
Missing At Random (MAR). The MAR assumption is considered a reasonable starting point for a primary analysis,
though sensitivity analyses are recommended because it is typically impossible to guarantee that observed
baseline characteristics can sufficiently impute the missing data without bias. Under the MAR assumption, an
observed outcomes analysis is approximately unbiased which we will use for the primary analysis. In specifying
1:8
•
the mean model, 𝑅𝐶𝑆(𝐶, 5) denotes restricted cubic splines with 5 knots placed at the 0.05, 0.275, 0.50, 0.725, and
0.95 quantiles of calendar time, and underlined coefficients correspond with a vector of coefficients:
𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖,𝐶𝑖𝑗,𝐴𝑖] = logit−1 
𝛽0 + 𝛽1 · 𝑍𝑖+ 𝛽2 · 𝑅𝐶𝑆(𝐶𝑖𝑗, 5) + 𝛽3 · 𝑅𝐶𝑆(𝐶𝑖𝑗, 5) · 𝑍𝑖

.
Note that the mean model will be estimated for each allocation period and that the mean model specification
allows a separate functional form of testing across calendar time by treatment arm (via the treatment by calendar
time interaction). Among observed outcomes, the mean model will be estimated using Generalized Estimating
Equations (GEE) with a logit link and a compound symmetry working model for the covariance of household
repeated measures. Compound symmetry assumes that testing is equally correlated across a household contact’s
observations, and this may not be appropriate. For example, a household contact may test positive for COVID
then not test for a period of time because an assumed immunity following COVID exposure. We will use robust
standard errors to asymptotically correct for misspecification of the working model for covariance. We will use
rcs function of the rms package to create the restricted cubic splines for assessment calendar time. In fitting
restricted cubic splines, we may use additional or fewer spline knots if the fit is better and the conclusions are the
same.
In estimating the mean model, irregularities could occur because of the complexity allowing a different function
form of testing rate over time (i.e., the time by treatment interaction). If this happens, we will simplify the model
by removing the calendar time by treatment interaction. This would assume a proportional estimate of testing
over time for both treatment groups.
Following GEE estimation, the estimand for each allocation era will be estimated as
d
𝑅𝑇𝑅𝐴𝑖=
∫
𝐶ˆ𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 1,𝐶𝑖𝑗,𝐴𝑖]𝑓(𝐶| 𝐴𝑖)𝑑𝐶
∫
𝐶ˆ𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 0,𝐶𝑖𝑗,𝐴𝑖]𝑓(𝐶| 𝐴𝑖)𝑑𝐶
.
We will follow [1] to combine relative risk estimates across studies accounting for uncertainty. This entails
estimate the log-relative risk and standard error (which we will do using bootstrap sampling at the household-
level), aggregating the estimates across allocation eras using inverse variance weighting, and applying the delta
method with a wald confidence interval.
Scale-Up COUNTS Statistical Analysis Plan
•
1:9
We will also present the estimated probability of testing over time for each treatment group.
8.2
Sensitivity Analysis 1 – Pattern Mixture Model adjusting with MAR assumption
As a first sensitivity analysis, we will additionally adjust for baseline and non-baseline factors that may be associ-
ated with testing and response rates. Baseline factors include parent type (𝑃𝑇𝑖= {0 = 𝑚𝑜𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑟, 1 = 𝑓𝑎𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑟, 2 = 𝑜𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑟}),
number of enrolled children (𝐸𝐶𝑖), and social vulnerability index (𝑆𝑉𝐼𝑖). Non-baseline factors include whether
the household opted out after five assessments (𝑂𝑂5𝑖= {0 = 𝑛𝑜, 1 = 𝑦𝑒𝑠}) and the household contact’s observed
self-report rate (𝑆𝑅𝑖= proportion of self-reported outcomes). For each allocation period, we will fit a separate
model for each treatment arm with the mean model specified as:
𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝐶𝑖𝑗,𝐴𝑖, 𝑃𝑇𝑖, 𝐸𝐶𝑖,𝑆𝑉𝐼𝑖,𝑂𝑂5𝑖,𝑆𝑅𝑖] =
logit−1 
𝛽0 + 𝛽1 · 𝑅𝐶𝑆(𝐶𝑖𝑗, 5) + 𝛽2 · 𝑃𝑇𝑖+ 𝛽3 · 𝐸𝐶𝑖+ 𝛽4 · 𝑅𝐶𝑆(𝑆𝑉𝐼𝑖, 5) + 𝛽5 · 𝑂𝑂5𝑖+ 𝛽6 · 𝑆𝑅𝑖+ 𝛽7 · 𝑂𝑂5𝑖· 𝑆𝑅𝑖

.
Among observed observations, the mean model will be estimated using GEE with a compound symmetry working
model for covariance and robust standard errors. The same limitations regarding mispecifying the working
covariance matrix apply.
This is a pattern mixture model [3], and it posits that each individual has a probability of testing, over time,
that is fully predictable given the adjusting covariates. A limitation of 𝑆𝑅𝑖is that it may not be well-estimated
with relatively few assessments. There may be notable noise in estimating an individual’s true 𝑆𝑅𝑖.
For each household contact, we will estimate the testing rate over time given their baseline and post-baseline
factors. Although individuals enroll at different times, we will estimate their testing rate throughout the study
time; study time is specific to the enrollment allocation era. To integrate out the post-baseline factors, we will
average across the household contact-specific functional form of testing rate over time. (This also effectively
integrates out over baseline covariates) A household contact, 𝑖, which opted out after randomization and before
their first assessment will be included with 𝑂𝑂5𝑖= 0 and 𝑆𝑅𝑖= 0.
The RTR will be estimated as
1:10
•
d
𝑅𝑇𝑅𝐴𝑖=
∫
𝐶
∫
𝑂𝑂5
∫
𝑆𝑅b𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 1,𝐶𝑖𝑗,𝐴𝑖, 𝑃𝑇𝑖, 𝐸𝐶𝑖,𝑆𝑉𝐼𝑖,𝑂𝑂5𝑖,𝑆𝑅𝑖]𝑓(𝐶| 𝐴𝑖)𝑓(𝑂𝑂5𝑖,𝑆𝑅𝑖| 𝑍𝑖= 1)𝑑(𝑂𝑂5,𝑆𝑅)𝑑𝐶
∫
𝐶
∫
𝑂𝑂5
∫
𝑆𝑅b𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 0,𝐶𝑖𝑗,𝐴𝑖, 𝑃𝑇𝑖, 𝐸𝐶𝑖,𝑆𝑉𝐼𝑖,𝑂𝑂5𝑖,𝑆𝑅𝑖]𝑓(𝐶| 𝐴𝑖)𝑓(𝑂𝑂5𝑖,𝑆𝑅𝑖| 𝑍𝑖= 0)𝑑(𝑂𝑂5,𝑆𝑅)𝑑𝐶
≈
∫
𝐶

1
𝑛𝑇𝑀
Í
𝑖∈𝑇𝑀b𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 1,𝐶𝑖𝑗,𝐴𝑖, 𝑃𝑇𝑖, 𝐸𝐶𝑖,𝑆𝑉𝐼𝑖,𝑂𝑂5𝑖,𝑆𝑅𝑖]

𝑓(𝐶| 𝐴𝑖)𝑑(𝑂𝑂5,𝑆𝑅)𝑑𝐶
∫
𝐶

1
𝑛𝑈𝐶
Í
𝑖∈𝑈𝐶b𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 0,𝐶𝑖𝑗,𝐴𝑖, 𝑃𝑇𝑖, 𝐸𝐶𝑖,𝑆𝑉𝐼𝑖,𝑂𝑂5𝑖,𝑆𝑅𝑖]

𝑓(𝐶| 𝐴𝑖)𝑑(𝑂𝑂5,𝑆𝑅)𝑑𝐶
The overall RTR will be aggregated across allocation eras as in the primary analysis. The utility of this sensitivity
analysis depends upon the extent that the adjustment covariates predict well the outcomes and the missingness
mechanism. As a limitation, the model conditions on the household contact’s observed self-report rate which
could be a poor estimation of the household contact’s true response rate. This latter concern is magnified when
there are few assessments.
Based upon initial assessment, we anticipate less than 1% of individuals have a missing SVI or number of
enrolled children. Given the sparse extent of missing data, we will use mean imputation conditioned on school
enrollment.
In the primary analysis, we may consider additional knots for the splines on continuous covariates if the model
feasibly allows (without convergence issues) and the conclusions are consistent. We will take the same approach
in the sensitivity analysis. However, we will aim to use the same number of knots between the analyses if feasible
and if conclusions are robust.
8.3
Sensitivity Analysis 2 – Conjecture of testing rates when unreported, missing not at random
assumption (MNAR)
With a large extent of unreported outcomes, the MAR assumption is questionable. To relax this assumption, we
make a set of conjectures of the testing rate among the unreported outcomes. These are not verifiable conjectures;
however, they can serve to place a set of bounds of effects sizes under plausible and stringent assumptions.
In sensitivity analysis 1, we assumed the unobserved outcomes were predictable based upon the observed ob-
servations and accounting for post-randomization factors. In this analysis, we still draw upon post-randomization
Scale-Up COUNTS Statistical Analysis Plan
•
1:11
factors but assume the testing rate is only a fraction of the predicted amount. As in sensitivity analysis 1, we will
again estimate each household contact’s testing rate over time and average across the household contact testing
rates so to integrate out the post-randomization features.
Denote whether an individual responds as 𝑅𝑖𝑗. For a household contact in the TM arm, their expected testing
rate over time will be modeled as:
𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 1,𝐶𝑖𝑗,𝐴𝑖, 𝑃𝑇𝑖, 𝐸𝐶𝑖,𝑆𝑉𝐼𝑖,𝑂𝑂5𝑖,𝑆𝑅𝑖] · 1(𝑅𝑖𝑗= 1)+
𝛾1𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 1,𝐶𝑖𝑗,𝐴𝑖, 𝑃𝑇𝑖, 𝐸𝐶𝑖,𝑆𝑉𝐼𝑖,𝑂𝑂5𝑖,𝑆𝑅𝑖] · 1(𝑅𝑖𝑗= 0).
Note that 𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 1,𝐶𝑖𝑗,𝐴𝑖, 𝑃𝑇𝑖, 𝐸𝐶𝑖,𝑆𝑉𝐼𝑖,𝑂𝑂5𝑖,𝑆𝑅𝑖] is the model for the TM arm in sensitivity analysis 1.
Similarly, for a household contact in the UC arm, their expected testing rate over time will be modeled as:
𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 0,𝐶𝑖𝑗,𝐴𝑖, 𝑃𝑇𝑖, 𝐸𝐶𝑖,𝑆𝑉𝐼𝑖,𝑂𝑂5𝑖,𝑆𝑅𝑖] · 1(𝑆𝑅𝑖𝑗= 1)+
𝛾0𝐸[𝑌𝑖𝑗| 𝑍𝑖= 0,𝐶𝑖𝑗,𝐴𝑖, 𝑃𝑇𝑖, 𝐸𝐶𝑖,𝑆𝑉𝐼𝑖,𝑂𝑂5𝑖,𝑆𝑅𝑖] · 1(𝑆𝑅𝑖𝑗= 0).
We will consider multiple combinations of 𝛾1 and 𝛾0 such as keeping them the same and ranging from 0 to 1.25
by 0.25. When 𝛾1 = 𝛾0 = 0, is a meaningful boundary in which a non-reported outcome corresponds with no
testing. And, 𝛾1 = 𝛾0 = 1 corresponds with sensitivity analysis 1. We will also consider fixing 𝛾1 to be between 0
and 1.25 and setting 𝛾0 such that 𝛾1/𝛾0 is proportional by 𝛼d
𝑅𝑇𝑅from the primary analysis.
Given a household contact’s new testing rate over time, we will mimic sensitivity analysis 1 in which we
integrate across household contacts to estimate the testing rate across groups and then integrate over calendar
time to estimate the RTR. We will aggregate results across allocation eras as in the primary and sensitivity 1
analysis. We will report the combination of 𝛾1 and 𝛾0 values which would nullify the effect of TM.
9
ESTIMATION AND ANALYSIS PLAN FOR MISSED SCHOOL DAYS OUTCOME (RMD30)
The analysis for missed school days will mirror the testing outcome analysis. The quantity of interest is the
RMD30 relative number of missed school days (over the past 30 days).
1:12
•
The mean model for the primary and sensitivity analyses will be specified as in the testing outcome model,
but with specifying a poison model with a log link. If the model does not converge, we will use a normal model
with an identity link and rely upon asymptotic normality. Uncertainty will be modeled and captured as in the
estimation of the RTR and results will be similarly pooled.
REFERENCES
[1] Friedrich, J. O., Adhikari, N. K. J., and Beyene, J. (2008). The ratio of means method as an alternative to mean differences for analyzing
continuous outcome variables in meta-analysis: a simulation study. BMC Medical Research Methodology, 8:1–15.
[2] International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human use (2017). ICH Harmonized
Guideline E9 (R1) Estimands and Sensitivity analysis in Clinical Trials.
[3] Little, R. J. A. (1993). Pattern-mixture models for multivariate incomplete data. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 88(421):125–
134.
