STUDY: A Phase 2 Clinical Trial of Tolebrutinib, a Brain-penetrant Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor, for the Modulation of Chronically Inflamed White Matter Lesions in Multiple Sclerosis
NCT: NCT04742400
Phase: ['PHASE2']
* INCLUSION CRITERIA:

In order to be eligible to participate in this study, an individual must meet all of the following criteria:

Tolebrutinib Cohorts Inclusion Criteria

1. Able to provide informed consent
2. Willingness to comply with all study procedures and availability for the duration of the study
3. Male or female, aged greater than or equal to 18
4. Diagnosed with multiple sclerosis according to the 2017 revision of the McDonald diagnostic criteria, with no new lesion formation by comparison of baseline MRI scan with a historical MRI scan at least 6 months prior
5. On anti-CD20 antibody treatment for at least 6 months, with the most recent dose at most 6 months prior to enrollment.
6. Willing to forego further anti-CD20 antibody treatment for the duration of the study
7. Fully vaccinated against SARS-CoV-2 by Day 0. At the time of this writing, Fully vaccinated is defined as:

   * Two weeks out from the second dose of a two-dose vaccine series (Moderna, Pfizer-BioNTech); or
   * Two weeks out from a single-dose vaccine (Johnson \& Johnson/Janssen)
   * Note: Should guidelines change, we will amend these inclusion criteria accordingly
8. Has a prior 7-tesla MRI scan, no more than 1 year prior to enrollment, demonstrating at least one white matter lesion with a paramagnetic rim
9. For females of reproductive potential: agrees to use highly effective contraception for at least 1 month prior to dosing and to use such a method during study participation and for an additional 12 weeks after the end of tolebrutinib administration
10. For males of reproductive potential: agrees to use condoms or other methods to ensure effective contraception with partner; agrees not to donate sperm from the inclusion up to 12 weeks after the last dose
11. QuantiFERON-TB Gold negative; skin testing (e.g., tuberculin skin test) will be allowed if blood testing is not available or the blood test result is indeterminate
12. Agrees to adhere to Lifestyle Considerations throughout st
Background:

Some multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions stay inflamed for very long periods of time. This type of inflammation is not affected by any MS medications. These lesions can lead to slow worsening of MS symptoms. Researchers want to see if a new drug can help.

Objective:

To see if tolebrutinib can help clear inflammation in MS brain lesions.

Eligibility:

Adults ages 18 and older with MS who are on an anti-CD20 therapy.

Design:

Participants will be screened under protocol #89-N-0045.

Participants will have a medical history. They will have physical and neurological exams. They will have blood and urine tests. The progression of their MS will be assessed.

Participants will have MRIs of the brain. The MRI scanner is shaped like a cylinder. It uses a magnetic field and radio waves to take pictures of the body. During the MRIs, participants will lie on a table that slides in and out of the scanner. Soft padding or a coil will be placed around their head.

Participants may have electrocardiograms to measure the heart s electrical activity.

Participants may have lumbar punctures ( spinal taps ). A small needle will be inserted into the spinal canal in the lower back. Fluid will be collected.

Some participants will take tolebrutinib pills by mouth once a day for at least 96 weeks. They will stop their anti-CD20 therapy. They will have at least 10 study visits.

Some participants will not take tolebrutinib. They will stay on their anti-CD20 therapy. They will have 5 study visits.

Participation will last at least 96 weeks.