STUDY: A Phase 1/2 Randomized, Placebo-controlled, Observer-blind Trial to Assess the Safety and Immunogenicity of COVIVAC Vaccine Produced by IVAC in Adults Aged 18-60 Years in Vietnam
NCT: NCT04830800
Phase: ['PHASE1']
Inclusion Criteria:

Phase 1 Only:

1. Adult 18 through 59 years of age inclusive at the time of randomization.
2. Healthy, as defined by absence of clinically significant medical condition, either acute or chronic, as determined by medical history, physical examination, screening laboratory test results, and clinical assessment of the investigator.
3. Has provided written informed consent prior to performance of any study-specific procedure.
4. Has a body mass index (BMI) of 17 to 40 kg/m2, inclusive, at screening.
5. Resides in study site area and is able and willing to adhere to all protocol visits and procedures.
6. If a woman is of childbearing potential, must not be breastfeeding or be pregnant (based on a negative urine pregnancy test at screening and during the 24 hours prior to receipt of the first dose of IP), must plan to avoid pregnancy for at least 28 days after the last dose of IP, and be willing to use an adequate method of contraception consistently and have a repeated pregnancy test prior to the second (last) dose of IP.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Use of any investigational medicinal product within 90 days prior to randomization or planned use of such a product during the period of study participation.
2. History of administration of any non-study vaccine within 28 days prior to administration of study vaccine or planned vaccination within 3 months after enrolment.

   Note: receipt of any COVID-19 vaccine that is licensed or granted Emergency Use Authorization in Vietnam during the course of study participation is not exclusionary if administered after Visit 5.
3. Previous receipt of investigational vaccine for SARS or MERS, or any investigational or licensed vaccine that may have an impact on interpretation of the trial results
4. History of hypersensitivity reaction to any prior vaccination or known hypersensitivity to any component of the study vaccine
5. History of egg or chicken allergy
6. History of angioedema
7. History of anaphylaxis
8. Acute
This prospective, single-center, randomized, placebo-controlled, observer-blind Phase 1/2 study includes two separate parts.

Part 1 is a first-in-human, Phase 1 study designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the COVIVAC vaccine at three different dose levels (1, 3, and 10 µg) without adjuvant, and at one dose level (1 µg) with the adjuvant CpG 1018, in a total of 120 subjects aged 18-59 years. (Part 2 will be registered in a separate record)