imputation and we
will investigate the impact of this in Section 7.1.2.
• Target vessel failure within one year.
Defined as cardiac death, target vessel-related myocardial infarction, or clinically driven target
vessel revascularization.
– Cardiac death is defined as death due to coronary heart disease, sudden cardiac death,
heart failure including cardiogenic shock, and death related to the cardiac procedure
within 28 days from the procedure. If death is not clearly attributable to other non-
cardiac causes, it is adjudicated as cardiac.
– Target vessel myocardial infarction is defined as myocardial infarction according to the
4th Universal definition of Myocardial Infarction or peri-procedural myocardial infarction
within 48 hours. Peri-procedural myocardial infarction is defined according to ARC-2
criteria: Troponin elevation of 35 times the 99th URL (or CK-MB elevation of >5 times
the 99th URL) and either: ST-segment changes, new pathological Q waves, angiographic
evidence of a flow limiting complication (loss of patency of a side branch, persistent slow-
flow or no-reflow, or embolization), imaging evidence of new loss of viable myocardium,
or new wall motion abnormality within 48 hours after the PCI. In patients with elevated
biomarkers prior to the procedure, the post-procedure troponin must rise by >20% and
still be >35 times the 99th percentile URL. MIs will default to target vessel-related MIs
unless there is other proof of definite attribution to a non-target vessel.
– Clinically-driven target vessel revascularization is defined as coronary artery bypass graft-
ing or PCI of index vessel performed due to symptoms or signs of ischemia.
Accordingly, the primary estimand is described by the following attributes:
• Population: Adults with severely calcified coronary lesions with indication for PCI, the specific
population is defined by the inclusion and exclusion criteria as given in Section 4.
• Endpoint: is a composite of procedural failure and within 1-year target vessel failure.
• Treatment: The interventions are conventional lesion preparation and preparation including
balloon lithoplasty prior to implantation of newest-generation drug-eluting stents
• Intercurrent events:
– Failure to obtain all information needed to evaluate the primary composite endpoint
for reasons other than death from a cause not included in the