missing data. Broadly, retention methods may include outreach to the participant and their 
identified contacts through email reminders, phone calls, text messaging, and social media. 
 
A total of 35 participants will be enrolled in the study with the goal of having 30 participants complete the 
study in its entirety. 
 
 
6.4.1 Use of DataCore/Epic Information for Recruitment Purposes 
 
Patients will be recruited in-person by the research team during their ED visit without the use mail, email, 
or other messaging to patients or the use of patient-facing recruitment materials. Identification of potential 
participants will occur primarily through referral by clinical staff (health coaches, social workers, peer 
counselors, and volunteers) who operate an existing substance use screening and intervention program 
in the Bellevue ED. EPIC will be utilized in a limited capacity to identify participants. Specifically, the 
research team will review the census of current, active ED patients in EPIC to identify patients who have 
ED visits related to opioid use and/or who have been identified to have non-medical opioid use (e.g., 
nurse screening) and/or who have been identified and referred by clinical staff as potential study 
participants. The research team will inform the treating provider that their patient is potentially eligible for 
the study and will request permission to be introduced to the patient. The research team will use 
approved recruitment language to communicate the reason they are approaching the patient and ask if 
they are interested in participating in this specific study. Should the potential participants agree, the 
research team will provide the subjects with information regarding the next steps for participation. 
 
If a subject requests information regarding opting out of further recruitment for all research, subjects will 
be directed to contact research-contact-optout@nyumc.org or 1-855-777-7858. 
 
6.5 Duration of Study Participation 
The study duration will be approximately 12 months. The duration of study participation for each individual 
participant will be 1 month, including screening/index visit, study intervention and follow-up. We will target 
1 study enrollee per week, with a goal of 2 per week, and expect to enroll participants within an 11-month 
period. The study will end approximately one month after the final participant is enrolled, at the conclusion 
of that participant's one-month follow up. We know from our previous and ongoing studies that recruitment 
should not be limited by the number of eligible patients. 
 
 
6.6 Total Number of Participants and Sites 
Recruitment will end when approximately 35 participants are enrolled. Enrollment will take place out of the 
Emergency Departments in Bellevue Hospital, NYULH-Tisch, NYULH-Winthrop, NYULH-Brooklyn, and 
NYULH-Cobble Hill.  
 
6.7 Participant Withdrawal or Termination 
 
6.7.1 Reasons for Withdrawal or Termination 
Participants are free to withdraw from participation in the study at any time upon request. An investigator 
may terminate participation in the study if: 
• 
After the first 8 mg dose of BUP is administered, a study participant experiences any clinical AE 
(e.g., allergic reaction) that would preclude safe administration of the subsequent BUP 24mg 
dose during the index visit. The initial BUP 8mg is a standard dose used in the ED; it is only the 
subsequent BUP 24mg (for a total dose of BUP 32mg) that is being evaluated in this study. 
• 
Thus, if a participant develops a reaction to the initial 8mg dose, the reaction would be attributed 
to the standard dose of BUP and not the larger dose of being tested. 
• 
The participant meets an exclusion criterion (either newly developed or not previously 
Page 25 
 
Study Number: s19-01700 
Version: 7.0 
Version Date: 08/01/2022 
 
recognized) that precludes further study participation. 
• 
The participant becomes a prisoner. 
 
6.7.2 Handling of Participant Withdrawals or Termination 
If participants are terminated from the study or withdraw themselves for any of the above reasons, the 
situation will be handled accordingly. If participants choose to withdraw themselves, but have no AEs, 
they will still be eligible to continue treatment for OUD, which may include BUP, and will be treated with 
the standard of care and connected to follow-up as clinic availability allows. If participants are terminated 
or removed due to any AE, they will be monitored and treated either in the ED or on an outpatient basis. 
If a participant meets exclusion criteria (either newly developed or not previously recognized), they will 
be formally withdrawn from the study, but may be still be eligible to continue BUP treatment outside of 
the study. If participants are withdrawn or discontinued early, enrollment will continue to meet a goal of 
35 participants. 
 
6.8 Premature Termination or Suspension of Study 
 
This study may be temporarily suspended or prematurely terminated if there is sufficient reasonable 
cause. Written notification, documenting the reason for study suspension or termination, will be provided 
by the suspending or terminating party to the investigator, funding agencies, and regulatory authorities. If 
the study is prematurely terminated or suspended, the PI will promptly inform the IRB and will provide the 
reason(s) for the termination or suspension. 
Circumstances that may warrant termination or suspension include, but are not limited to: 
• 
Determination of unexpected, significant, or unacceptable risk to participants 
• 
Demonstration of efficacy that would warrant stopping 
• 
Insufficient compliance to protocol requirements 
• 
Data that are not sufficiently complete and/or evaluable 
• 
Determination of futility 
Study may resume once concerns about safety, protocol compliance, data quality are addressed and 
satisfy the sponsor, IRB and/or FDA. 
 
6.9 Acquisition 
During the index visit, BUP (as a BUP-NX formulation) will be acquired from the Bellevue Hospital ED 
and NYULH Pharmacy medication dispensing system, where it is on formulary and approved for this 
indication. Upon completion of the third research visit or upon development of objective signs of opioid 
withdrawal (determined via COWS), participants will be provided with a prescription for sublingual BUP-
NX, which they can acquire free of charge from the outpatient hospital pharmacy, located adjacent to the 
BHC ED. 
 
 
6.9.1 Formulation, Appearance, Packaging, and Labeling 
 
All BUP ordered as part of clinical care in the EMR and supplied through the Bellevue Hospital Clinical 
Pharmacy and NYULH Clinical Pharmacy. Currently on Bellevue Hospital formulary is the generic 
buprenorphine/naloxone (8mg/2mg) tablet and Subutex brand BUP monoproduct (the latter would be 
for use in patients/participants with a naloxone allergy only). The manufacturer will depend on what is 
currently on the hospital formulary and may change. Should this occur, participants will receive the 
equivalent medication dose. For example, if the formulary changes from BUP-NX (8mg/2mg) tablet to 
buprenorphine/naloxone (8mg/2mg) film, the participant will receive buprenorphine/naloxone 
(8mg/2mg) film sublingually (same bioavailability/dose). 
 
Participants will also receive a prescription for BUP to pick up at their preferred outpatient pharmacy 
either after the third research visit, or when they demonstrate objective signs of withdrawal. 
 
There will be no storage or administration of medication by the research pharmacy. 
 
 
6.9.2 Product Storage and Stability 
Page 26 
 
Study Number: s19-01700 
Version: 7.0 
Version Date: 08/01/2022 
 
As above, medication will be ordered as part of clinical care and supplied through the Bellevue Hospital 
clinical pharmacy and NYULH clinical pharmacy. There will be no research medication stored/supplied by 
the study. 
 
 
6.9.3 Preparation 
The study agent does not require additional preparation. 
 
6.9.4 Dosing and Administration 
All participants will receive a total dose of BUP 32mg sublingually in divided doses during the index ED 
visit.  After the participant has received a total of 8mg (as a single dose or in divided doses), BUP SL 
24mg will be administered (i.e., 8mg + 24mg, or 4mg + 4mg +24mg).  A dose of up to BUP 8mg SL may 
be administered by the clinical provider prior to enrollment of the patient-participant (i.e., given clinically, 
not as a research procedure). 
 
After pre-medication assessments are complete and the participant is confirmed to have a COWS of ≥8, 
the participant will be given BUP SL to reach a dose of 8mg.  Starting 30 minutes after BUP 
administration, the participant will be reassessed for withdrawal severity and any