imputation or excluding outliers to 
ensure robustness of study conclusions. Details of outliers detected will be presented in 
the footnotes of the relevant outputs. 
6. PATIENT DISPOSITION 
The total number of patients who were screened and failed at screening will be displayed 
along with the primary reason for screening failure based on the ‘Eligibility Criteria’ page 
of eCRF.  
The reasons for screening failure will be displayed using the following categories and 
ordering: 
• 
Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria not met 
• 
Subject withdrew consent 
• 
Other 
A listing of patients for eligibility criteria will be provided. 
The number of patients who were randomized, treated study drug, discontinued and 
completed in each period, and entered in follow-up period will also be displayed on the 
ITT Set along with percentage, if applicable.  
Patient disposition will be defined as follows: 
• 
A patient will be considered to be randomized if the patient was allocated a 
randomization ID based on the ‘Randomization’ page of the eCRF.  
• 
A patient will be considered to have been treated study drug if it is recorded as 
‘Yes’ on the ‘Study Drug Administration’ page of the eCRF.   
• 
A patient will be considered to have discontinued in Treatment Period if it is 
recorded that they ended (box checked other than ‘Completion of Treatment 
Period’) in the “End of Treatment Period” page of eCRF. 
• 
Conversely, a patient will be considered to have completed Treatment Period if it 
is recorded that they completed (‘Completion of Treatment Period’ box checked) 
in the “End of Treatment Period” page of eCRF. 
• 
A patient will be considered to have been entered in Follow-Up Period if it is 
recorded in the “End of Treatment Period” page of eCRF that they enter the 
Follow-Up Period (‘Yes’ box checked).  
• 
A patient will be considered to have discontinued in Follow-Up Period if it is 
recorded that they ended (box checked other than ‘Completion of Follow-Up 
Period’) in the “End of Follow-Up Period” page of eCRF. 
CELLTRION, Inc.