Study Population. 
Only patients considered an acceptable surgical candidate for SCS will be eligible for recruitment into this study.  
 
For patients with chronic pain, all diagnostic procedures will have taken place prior to recruitment as part of the 
routine diagnosis and care of patients with chronic pain. It is standard of care to require failure of conservative 
therapy, e.g., physical therapy and/or epidural steroid injections, and SCS temporary trial by a board-certified 
pain management specialist in addition to neuropsychological testing by a board-certified neuropsychologist prior 
to being considered for permanent SCS implantation. No patient will receive an MRI scan in order to be included 
in this study, and patients who did not have an MRI as part of their clinical assessment will not be eligible for this 
study.  
Figure 1: Boston Scientific CoverEdge™ 32 
Surgical Lead (left) and fluoroscopic image of 
the stimulator array after implantation along 
the dorsal epidural space (right). 
 
For patients with incomplete SCI, a medical history review and AIS classification evaluation will have already 
been performed by a board-certified physical medicine and rehabilitation physician or licensed physical therapist 
prior to undergoing the same diagnostic workup for SCS. 
 
All preoperative evaluations described above constitute standard of care for both populations. Patient eligibility 
for this study will be based on the following inclusion/exclusion criteria: 
 
Inclusion Criteria 
- 
Patients consented and scheduled for SCS surgery with the PI 
- 
Age 18-80 
 
Exclusion Criteria 
- 
Patients unable to actively participate in the consent process physically and/or cognitively 
- 
Patient with SCI and AIS A or B classification 
- 
Prior history of spinal neoplasm, infection, arteriovenous malformation and/or radiation to the spine  
 
The rationale for these criteria are as follows: patients with prior history of tumor, infection, arteriovenous 
malformation and/or radiation of the tissues surrounding the epidural space may result in formation of scar tissue 
which directly alters the resistance of the tissue to passing electrical current, potentially confounding study data. 
Patients with AIS classification of B or higher may be motor/sensory complete and unable to participate in the 
study protocol.  
 
5.0 Number of Subjects 
We propose to study 5 individuals with intractable lower back and/or leg pain and comorbid incomplete spinal 
cord injury, with an additional 5 subjects having only intractable lower back or leg pain to serve as our control 
group. A prior study conducted by Formento et al, 2018 using SCS and proprioceptive testing found a standard 
error and 95% confidence interval using successful and unsuccessful trial attempts using the Clopper-Pearson 
interval method among 4 subjects, with a found P < 0.05 among LFTS parameters and no stimulation, with a 
minimum of 10 trials per stimulation setting.6 Based on this, we expect that our small population will exhibit similar 
variance, thus justifying our subject size. The subject