study populations separately if they will be 
participating in different procedures - include CONTROL population if applicable. 
DESCRIBE: 
• 
What subjects will be asked to do/what happens in the study (in sequential order) 
• 
The time period over which procedures will occur 
• 
The time commitment for the subject for individual visits/procedures 
• 
Long-term followup and how it occurs 
We anticipate the study will be completed in one visit. The approximate time to complete study activities is 3-
4 hours. Although we will attempt to collect all data in the specific order listed, the number of study activities 
completed and the specific order of completion will be dependent on participant, staff, and study equipment 
availability. 
Potential participants will answer pre-screening questions as listed on the Pre-Screening Checklist over the 
phone before scheduling visit one, or in person during the first visit. If they meet all inclusion and exclusion 
criteria they will be consented to participate. Following consent, subjects will be screened using the post-
screening checklist. If subjects fail to meet the inclusion or exclusion criteria, their participation will end at 
that point. 
We will collect anthropometric and demographic information, have participants complete questionnaires 
concerning pain and comfort and smoothness, and use a motion capture system to investigate effects of ankle 
orthosis stiffness on gait biomechanics and joint level stiffness. Study participants will undergo an evaluation 
of characteristics relevant to device design, such as anthropometrics (height, weight, etc.), ankle joint stiffness, 
and pain, among other factors. 
Each participant will be given time to accommodate to the brace prior to collection. Participants will then 
undergo testing in each study condition (Stiff, Compliant, NoBrace) to determine how orthosis stiffness affects 
gait biomechanics and overall joint stiffness. We will use well-established techniques to obtain a range of 
biomechanical data as individuals walk at self-selected and controlled speeds. 
Personal/demographic and anthropometric information will be used to fully characterize the study participants. 
Demographic factors include characteristics that are independent of the health condition but can potentially 
influence physical performance and an individual’s course of recovery. We will collect multiple variables that 
have been previously associated with outcomes, including race, ethnicity, and education to characterize the 
cohort. Anthropometric and demographic information, such as age, biological sex, height, weight, leg length, 
shoe type, shoe length and width will also be used to characterize the cohort. 
Patient-reported outcomes questionnaires will be used to evaluate participant pain, comfort and smoothness. 
These patient-centric assessments will provide insight that can be used to interpret other study findings. We 
have used the selected measures in the target population and expect that they will effectively capture device-
related outcomes. 
Comfort and smoothness will be assessed using a modified version of the Socket Comfort Score, a reliable, 
valid, and sensitive measure of device fit and comfort.[23] These measures have been shown to effectively 
capture patient perception, are responsive to simple modifications to CDO device function, and will be applied 
in a manner consistent with a prior publication by the research team.[24] Comfort scores range from 0 = most 
uncomfortable to 10 = most comfortable, and from 0 = least smooth to 10 = most smooth.[23] 
Pain will be assessed using a standard 11-point numerical pain rating scale, in which 0 = no pain and 10 = 
worst pain imaginable, in a manner consistent with multiple other protocols.[25,26] Using this highly reliable 
approach, participants will be asked to rate their pain at the start of each session, and report their pain with 
movement in the device (if any) during each walking condition. 
Ground reaction force and motion capture data will be used to evaluate the motion and loading of the lower 
limb and CDO devices as participants walk on a level walkway at self-selected speed and a controlled speed 
based on leg length.[21,27] Ground reaction force and motion capture data will be used to evaluate the motion 
and loading of the lower limb as participants walk on an over ground walkway at self-selected speed and a 
controlled speed based on leg length.[21,27] A minimum of three non-collinear reflective markers placed on 
the skin to minimize skin-bone movement will be used to determine kinematics for the segments of interest 
(foot, shank, thigh, pelvis, trunk, arms and head). A pointer wand with a rubber tip will be used to identify 
bony landmarks for segment coordinate system definition. Visual 3D software (C- Motion Inc.) will be used to 
calculate segment and joint angles and velocities. Force plates imbedded in the floor will capture ground 
reaction forces. Data from successful trials will be analyzed using Visual-3D software package (C-motion Inc., 
Germantown, MD).[21] The ability to collect reliable data across sites has been previously demonstrated.[22] 
Techniques established by Dr. Wilken will be used to assess ankle peak dorsiflexion, joint moments, and 
power.[21] The movement of the center of pressure (COP), the weighted average location of all ground 
reaction forces, has been directly related to prosthetic and orthotic device design, function, and participant 
preference.[24,28-30] The peak velocity of the COP and the time to peak will be determined as a percentage of 
stance, in a manner consistent with prior work by the research team.[24] 
Muscle activity will be measured using non-invasive surface electromyography sensors on the skin. A total of 
8 EMG electrodes will be placed on the participant, with 4 on each leg to measure activation of the soleus, 
tibialis anterior, and medial gastrocnemius and peroneus longus. EMG data will be collected bilaterally in the 
lower limbs and during normal walking and during in-vivo ankle stiffness testing. Participants will be given 
visual feedback to minimize the effects of muscle activity on measured joint stiffness. Participants will stand 
and sit with their foot (side with the Malleo-Lok AFO) on the force plate embedded in the floor and bring their 
knee forward over their stationary foot to deflect the device while minimizing muscle activity. 
Video recordings will be collected during walking trials. Recordings will include walking on the level over 
ground surface in each condition and at each walking speed. The camera will be positioned so the top of the 
field of view will be at the shoulders to minimize the likelihood of capturing the participants face, and the files 
will be stored securely as described in section X.4 and will only be available to members of the research team. 
Collection of video recordings is required during testing for quality control purposes. Video recordings will be 
removed from the video camera after being transferred to the secure network drive server and will be retained 
to facilitate future analysis consistent with "Data Storage for Future Use" section in the informed consent 
document. 
 
Describe the