STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03494166
Section: POPULATIONS
Features: pro_qol, consistency_bridging, pro_endpoints
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

Protocol Version Date:  09/10/2021 
 
 
Page 1 
 
SCIENTIFIC REVIEW COMMITTEE 
 
Title: 
Post-Chemotherapy Symptom Management: Testing Intervention Sequences in a SMART 
Design NCT03494166 
 
KEY PERSONNEL  
 
Name 
Organization 
Role on Project 
Terry Badger, PhD 
University of Arizona 
Principal Investigator  
 
Alla Sikorskii, PhD 
Michigan State University 
Principal Investigator  
 
Chris Segrin, PhD 
University of Arizona 
Co-Investigator 
 
 
Tracy Crane, PhD 
University of Arizona 
C-Investigator 
Pavani Chalasani, MD, MPH 
University of Arizona 
Co-Investigator 
 
  
Charles Given, PhD 
Michigan State University 
Consultant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDEX  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 
Schema/Study Flowchart 
Background & Rationale 
1.0 
Objectives/Specific Aims 
2.0 
Sample Eligibility Criteria 
3.0 
Participant Registration 
4.0 
Research Design, Methods and Procedures 
5.0 
Measures/Data Collection Instruments 
6.0 
Detailed Description of Intervention 
7.0 
Statistical Considerations 
8.0 
Study Timeline 
9.0 
Data Safety and Monitoring Plan 
10.0 
Reporting Adverse Events 
11.0 
Patient Consent and Peer Judgment 
12.0 
References 
13.0 
Appendices: 
14.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Version Date:  09/10/2021 
 
 
Page 2 
 
 
SCHEMA OR FLOWCHART 
Insert schematic or diagram outlining study design and procedures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Version Date:  09/10/2021 
 
 
Page 3 
 
 
1.0 
BACKGROUND & RATIONALE 
 
Scientific background and basis for hypothesis(es) to be tested. Include justification for 
conducting study and results of similar studies or pilot data.   
 
Nearly 15.5 million Americans have survived cancer and virtually all have experienced symptoms from 
cancer treatment that negatively impact their quality of life.1 Although numerous symptom management 
interventions have been tested during active cancer treatment,2-5 few have addressed the continuing 
fatigue, pain, depression, anxiety, insomnia, and other symptoms that endure following the end of 
treatment.6-10 Existing post-treatment symptom management research has targeted survivors several 
months after the end of active treatment, overlooking the immediate post-treatment period. During this 
period, some survivors have their symptoms resolve naturally with low need for interventions, while 
others suffer from high symptom burden, with about 30% experiencing depression.11-13 Even when 
depressive symptoms are not sufficiently severe to warrant a clinical diagnosis of depression,14-17 they 
need attention to decrease morbidity and mortality.18-20  
 
Based on the work of this team 21-23 and others,24-27 the number, severity and persistence of symptoms 
following chemotherapy for solid tumors can be predicted in part by comorbid conditions and depressive 
symptoms. Both of these easily identifiable factors influence the time needed to recover from cancer 
treatment,28-30 and are associated with multiple symptoms.31-36 Thus, we propose to target survivors with 
one or more comorbid conditions and elevated depressive symptomatology who are at risk for lingering 
symptoms that require interventions following at the end of chemotherapy; we call these “high need” 
survivors in this application. In our previous studies, 65% of survivors of solid tumors met these criteria 
and had higher persistent symptom burden than did survivors without these co-morbidities.21-23,37 
 
Our scientific premise is that depression, prevalent at the end of chemotherapy, is an important cognitive 
and emotional barrier for self-management of symptoms. Building on this premise, we seek to determine 
if addressing depressive symptoms will allow survivors to reframe their beliefs regarding the efficacy of 
their actions towards managing their symptoms. The goal of this research is to determine the best 
sequencing of interventions for high need survivors using a sequential multiple assignment randomized 
trial (SMART) design (Figure 1). Two interventions with proven efficacy 4,37-39 will be used: 1) a 
minimal intervention, the printed Symptom Management and Survivorship Handbook (SMSH) with 
evidence-based self-care strategies for elevated symptoms and 2) a more intensive intervention that 
combines SMSH with a Telephone Interpersonal Counseling (TIP-C) intervention for managing 
depressive symptoms.39,40 We follow the clinical logic of starting with SMSH, assessing its success in 
managing depressive symptoms (response), and continuing it when effective. If SMSH proves 
inadequate after 4 weeks for a survivor, we will test adding a more intensive TIP-C. 
 
 
2.0 
OBJECTIVE(S)/SPECIFIC AIMS 
 
Purpose and specific aims of the study. 
 
The proposed SMART will enroll an ethnically diverse (about 30% Hispanic) sample of N=344 (post-
attrition) survivors of solid tumors at the end of chemotherapy. As in past work,
41-43 we will deliver the 
interventions in either English or Spanish, based on the participant’s preference. The specific aims are 
to: 
 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Version Date:  09/10/2021 
 
 
Page 4 
 
Aim 1. Test the effects of interventions on the summed index of severity of 15 post-chemotherapy 
symptoms (primary outcome) and symptom-specific responses and times to response (secondary 
outcomes). 
Hypothesis 1. Survivors in the group that starts with TIP-C+SMSH versus to the group that starts with 
SMSH alone created by the first randomization will have better primary and secondary outcomes at 
weeks 1-13. 
Hypothesis 2. Among non-responders to the SMSH alone after 4 weeks, survivors in TIP-C+SMSH as 
compared to the SMSH alone group created by the second randomization will have better primary and 
secondary outcomes at weeks 5-13. 
Hypothesis 3. Self-efficacy and social support will mediate improvements in the primary outcome at 
week 13. 
Aim 2. Compare symptom outcomes of intervention sequences against the benchmark low need group. 
Exploratory Aim. Explore which survivor characteristics are associated with responses to the SMSH 
alone during weeks 1-4 and optimal symptom outcomes during weeks 1-13. This will allow us to 
determine tailoring variables to inform decision rules for choosing intervention sequences for individual 
survivors in the future. 
 
The SMART design provides a state-of-the-art framework for rigorous testing of this innovative 
symptom management approach in the overlooked immediate post-chemotherapy period.  
 
 
3.0 
SAMPLE ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA 
 
Specific inclusion/exclusion requirements which must be met for entry.   
 
Inclusion criteria include: (1)18 years of age or older, 2) have access to a telephone, 3) understand 
English or Spanish, and 4) are not currently receiving counseling and/or psychotherapy. Survivors must: 
5) have a new diagnosis or localized recurrence of solid tumor cancer, and 6) be finishing curative intent 
adjuvant chemotherapy or chemoradiation, and do not have any subsequent cancer treatments planned, 
except for radiation therapy, hormonal therapy or trastuzumab for breast cancer. 
 
Exclusion criteria include: (1) diagnosis of a psychotic disorder in medical record verified by the 
recruiter; 2) nursing home resident; 3) bedridden; 4) currently receiving counseling and/or 
psychotherapy. For instance, the sample will include survivors finishing chemoradiation for stage III 
lung cancer, survivors of breast, colon, rectal, resected pancreatic or resected lung cancer.  
 
4.0 
PARTICIPANT RECRUITMENT/ENROLLMENT 
 
Describe how study participants are to be recruited and enrolled in the study with appropriate 
contact phone numbers, etc. Stratification factors, participant characteristics which are 
balanced across treatment arms or used to determine intervention doses are described here.  
The randomization scheme is included here if applicable. 
 
Recruitment and enrollment. The proposed SMART will enroll an ethnically diverse (about 30% 
Hispanic) sample of N=344 (post-attrition) survivors of solid tumors at the end of chemotherapy.  
 
Survivors are recruited at the University of Arizona Cancer Center (UACC) locations in Tucson and 
Phoenix, Valleywise Health in Phoenix, and in the community. Recruiters (nurses or other health 
professionals) have research roles and do not provide direct care at the participating oncology settings. 
Survivors will be assured of the confidentiality of all information provided and that refusing to 
participate will not alter their health care. Survivors will continue to receive standard medical and 
nursing care, so they may seek care from their health providers for any health problems that arise. For 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Version Date:  09/10/2021 
 
 
Page 5 
 
those who refuse, the recruiter will ask their reason for refusal. For those who agree to participate, the 
recruiter will obtain the consent form, confirm treatment plan, and complete the recruitment form that 
includes name, main and alternative contact information, convenient call time, cancer site and stage, 
names and contact information for oncologist and primary care physician. Study participants will be 
informed that they will be 1) randomization to SMSH or TIP-C+SMH and may be re-randomized after 4 
weeks to either continue with the SMSH alone or to add TIP-C, 2) telephone symptom assessment and 
intervention sessions are weekly, and 3) there is no cost to study participation. Further, 4) the study lasts 
13 weeks to include all data collection, 5) Interventions are designed to help reduce symptoms, 6) A 
review of potential risks/benefits; and 7) there are study incentives. 
 
Using the inclusion/exclusion requirements detailed in section 3.0, the sample will include survivors 
finishing chemoradiation for stage III lung cancer, survivors of breast, colon, rectal, resected pancreatic 
or resected lung cancer. Because site of cancer and treatment type are balancing factors in 
randomizations, these variables will be equally distributed among trial arms. Our prior research indicates 
that participation in counseling and/or psychotherapy is rare. This exclusion criterion will not 
substantially limit the population but will eliminate potential confounding of the intervention effects 
with extraneous influences. Based on the demographic characteristics of the AZ population, the sample 
will consist of approximately 60% non-Hispanic white, 30% Hispanic/Latino, 3% each African 
American and Asian American, and 4% American Indian participants. There is an ample pool of cancer 
survivors available to meet enrollment targets. In 2017, Arizona is estimated to have 35,810 newly 
diagnosed cases of cancer,1 of these the majority are solid tumors. Conservatively, we will have access 
to about 10%, of which approximately 1/3rd or 1000 will satisfy the inclusion criteria. If 1/3rd of these, 
or 330, are approached and half will consent to participate, we can recruit over 160 survivors per year. 
Given this team’s past successful recruitment at the UACC and community sites (see letters of support), 
the proposed study will easily meet the goal of 145 survivors per each of 3 years of recruitment. 
 
Sample Size and power considerations. To determine sample size, we started at the right of the 
schematic in Figure 1 (the second randomization) and moved from right to left to determine the number 
of survivors needed. To power the comparisons of groups created by the second randomization 
(Hypothesis 2), we used the effect size of Cohen’s d=0.39 (adjusted for baseline), the smallest seen in 
the preliminary data for TIP-C against an educational intervention (Table 2) to conservatively estimate 
sample size requirements. We further adjusted this effect size for the reduction in error variance due to 9 
repeated measures of the primary outcome. In past studies, Pearson correlation coefficients between 
pairs of repeated measures of summed symptom severity index ranged from r=0.36 to 0.77, resulting in 
the range of the adjusted effect sizes from d=0.54 to 0.84. Using the smallest adjusted d=0.54, the 
required sample size is 60 per group created by the second randomization, for power of .80 or greater in 
two-tailed tests at the 0.05 level of significance. For the analysis of symptom response, the unit of 
analysis will be participant-symptom. Based on the preliminary data and inclusion criteria, 120 
participants from the second randomization are expected to average 2.7 symptoms at moderate or severe 
levels, yielding 324 symptom cases treated as nested within participants as described in the analysis. 
After accounting for nesting of the symptom cases within survivors, the adjusted sample size for the 
analysis of symptom response is 248 symptom cases, or 124 per group. Examples of detectable 
differences include symptom response of 47% versus 30%, rates consistent with past studies.139,152 
Proceeding further from left to right in Figure 1, 120 dyads from two groups created by the second 
randomization will be non-responders on depression to the SMSG alone after 4 weeks. From past work, 
the response rate to the SMSG on depression was 30%,97 therefore 120 non-responders will be 70% of 
172 randomized to the SMSG alone in the first randomization. The comparison of 172 to 52 participants 
allocated to the TIP-C+SMSG in the first randomization will have power of 0.92 to detect the effect size 
of 0.54 (adjusted for the repeated measures) in testing the hypotheses associated with Hypothesis 1. The 
tests of mediation effects (Hypothesis 3) will have an even greater power than the comparisons of 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Version Date:  09/10/2021 
 
 
Page 6 
 
randomized arms because of further reduction in error variance. Formal power considerations are not 
applicable for the exploratory aim. Therefore, the post-attrition size of the high need group is N=224. 
Since this group is 65% of the survivors finishing chemotherapy, we will screen 344, leaving 120 in the 
benchmark low need group. To account for 20% attrition based on past work, we will need to have 430 
survivors’ consent. 
 
Subject incentives. Incentive payments not only significantly improve recruitment rates
165, but there are 
no significant differences in key dependent variables for those offered versus those not offered an 
incentive.
166 Provision of incentives equivalent to the demands of participation is vital to successfully 
recruiting minorities into research and getting a culturally representative diverse sample.
167-170 After 
every interview, participants will receive thank you letters and gift cards from a large retail merchant in 
graduated amounts ($40 after baseline and $50 after week 13). The total compensation will be $90 for 
about 6-7 hours of participants’ time over 13 weeks in the high need group, or 2 hours in the low need 
group. 
 
Strategies to minimize attrition. 1) Recruiters will emphasize the importance of participating in the 
entire study. 2) Survivors will be asked to mark their calendars for study calls. 3) E-mail or text 
reminders ar