study population will consist of males and females aged 18 years and older who have chosen to participate in 
this clinical trial as evidenced by execution of the informed consent document.  
5.1.1  INFORMED CONSENT 
Written informed consent will be obtained from all subjects (or their guardians or legal representatives) before any 
study-related procedures, including any pre-treatment screening procedures, are performed. Investigators, or 
delegated study personnel, may discuss the availability of the study and the possibility for entry with a potential 
subject without first obtaining consent. Informed consent must be obtained and documented prior to initiation of 
any procedures that are performed solely for the purpose of determining eligibility for research. 
Investigators have ethical and legal responsibilities to ensure that the protocol is clearly explained to each subject 
considered for enrollment in the study. Compliance with this requirement should be documented on a written 
Informed Consent Form approved by the reviewing IRB. Each Informed Consent Form will include the elements 
required by FDA regulations in 21 CFR Part 50. 
The IRB-approved Informed Consent Form will be signed by the study personnel obtaining consent. The subject will 
be given a copy of the signed Informed Consent Form. The investigative site will keep the original on file.  
5.1.2  PRE-TREATMENT RECRUITING/SCREENING 
Subjects will be recruited from the study site’s patient database or IRB approved advertisement and screened.  Study 
site personnel will explain the design and purpose of the study to potential study subjects. Subjects interested in 
participating will visit the study site where informed consent will be obtained.  Subjects will be enrolled to ensure a 
minimum number of subjects by skin type participate in the study as follows: FST I-II, 5 subjects; FST III, 10 - 15 
subjects; FST IV, 10 – 15 subjects. 
5.1.3.1 SCREEN FAILURES 
A screen failure subject is one from whom informed consent is obtained and is documented in writing (i.e., subject 
signs an Informed Consent Form), but who does not receive a test spot exposure visit because of failure to meet all 
of the eligibility criteria. Screen failure subjects will be included in the total number of subjects enrolled (i.e., all 
subjects consented), but not counted towards the total subjects treated. 
5.1.3 INCLUSION CRITERIA 
Subjects must meet all of the following criteria for study enrollment: 
1. Male or female, age 18 years and older. 
2. Subject in good health. 
3. Fitzpatrick Skin Type I to IV. 
4. Presence of benign pigmented lesions on hands. 
5. Understands and accepts the obligation not to undergo any other procedures in the treatment area. 
CONFIDENTIAL – PROPRIETARY INFORMATION 
 
 
Protocol Number: L18007 v3.0 09272018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 21 of 44 
 
6. Willingness and ability to comply with protocol requirements, including returning for follow-up visits and 
abstaining from exclusionary procedures for the duration of the study. 
7. Subjects of childbearing potential must have a negative urine pregnancy test result and must not be 
lactating at the Screening Visit and be willing and able to use an acceptable method of birth control (e.g. 
barrier methods used with a spermicidal agent, hormonal methods, IUD, surgical sterilization, abstinence) 
during the study. Women will not be considered of childbearing potential if one of the following conditions 
is documented on the medical history:  
a. Postmenopausal for at least 12 months prior to study; 
b. Without a uterus and/or both ovaries; or  
c. 
Bilateral tubal ligation at least six months prior to study enrollment. 
8. Absence of physical or psychological conditions unacceptable to the investigator. 
9. Willingness and ability to provide written informed consent and HIPAA authorization prior to performance 
of any study-related procedure. 
5.2 
PARTICIPANT EXCLUSION CRITERIA 
Subjects will be excluded if they meet any of the following criteria: 
1. Healing disorders such as those caused by diabetes mellitus, connective tissue disease, radiation therapy, 
or chemotherapy. 
2. Subjects with a history of photosensitivity or diseases which may be stimulated by light at the 
wavelengths used, such as history of systemic Lupus Erythematosus, Pophyia, and Epilepsy. 
3. History of chronic drug or alcohol abuse. 
4. Inability to understand the protocol or to give informed consent. 
5. Subjects with a history of skin cancer or current condition of any other type of cancer or pre-malignant 
moles. 
6. Subjects who are pregnant, nursing, or anticipate a pregnancy during the length of the trial. 
7. History of keloid formation. 
8. Subjects with tattoos on the backs of the hands in the treatment area. 
9. History of surgical or cosmetic treatments in exposure area within the past six months. 
10. History of tanning or use of self-tanners in the past 4 weeks. 
11. History of treatments that may irritate the skin in the treatment area such as depilatories, harsh 
chemicals, etc.) in the past 2 weeks. 
12. Psychiatric drugs that in the investigators opinion would impair the subject from understanding the 
protocol requirements or understanding and signing the informed consent. 
After subjects have provided informed consent and met the inclusion/exclusion criteria, the study procedures 
described in the following section will be performed.  
5.3 
STRATEGIES FOR RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION 
Subjects will be recruited from the site’s patient database. Site personnel should conduct/send reminder phone calls, 
emails, and/or text messages to remind subjects of upcoming appointments. The next appointment should be 
scheduled prior to the subject leaving the current appointment.  
 
All subjects who have signed an Informed Consent Form, except for screen failures, will be considered enrolled in 
the study. Subjects who complete the study duration will be considered to have completed the study. Any subject 
CONFIDENTIAL – PROPRIETARY INFORMATION 
 
 
Protocol Number: L18007 v3.0 09272018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 22 of 44 
 
who does not return for a scheduled follow-up visit will be contacted at least twice by telephone to determine the 
cause for the missed visit and to try to get the subject scheduled for the follow-up. A new visit will be scheduled as 
soon as possible. All subjects should be followed until completing the study follow-up or until study discontinuation 
(withdrawal) for other reasons. The reason for study discontinuation should be documented for each subject. 
Subjects will be deemed “Lost-to-Follow-up” if they have not returned within six weeks after the last follow-up 
target. For any subject lost to follow-up at least three attempts to contact the subject must be documented; the 
attempts must be two phone calls/emails and a registered letter. 
5.3.1 SUBJECT PAYMENT 
Subjects will receive $50 for any 14-day follow-up visit that is completed without a treatment and $50 for the last 
study visit at the completion of the study visit. Visits where treatments are delivered will not be compensated.  
5.4  
PARTICIPANT WITHDRAWAL OR TERMINATION 
All subjects have the right to withdraw at any point during the study without prejudice. The investigator can 
discontinue any subject, at any time, if medically necessary. Subjects must be discontinued from the investigation 
by the investigator at any time for any of the following reasons: 
 
Withdrawal of informed consent. 
 
Pregnancy (no further study-related treatments will be performed; however, the follow-up visit will be 
completed if the study treatments has been completed and the subject will be followed to term, called 
after the pregnancy, child birth, and/or pregnancy termination and queried for abnormalities or 
complications). 
 
Any AEs for which treatment continuation would constitute an unacceptably high risk for the subject. 
 
The reason for any subject’s withdrawal should be documented on the appropriate study-specific data form.   
5.5 
PREMATURE TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF THE STUDY OR A STUDY SITE 
The study or a study site can be prematurely terminated or suspended by the sponsor. Reasons for termination of 
the study or a study site may include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 
Subject enrollment is unsatisfactory. 
 
The risks and benefits of continuing the study have been reassessed, and the risks outweigh any potential 
benefits. 
 
The incidence of AEs constitutes a potential health hazard to the subjects. 
 
New scientific data do not justify a continuation of the study. 
 
The investigator or study site exhibit serious and/or persistent non-adherence to the protocol, the 
Declaration of Helsinki, EN ISO 14155, and/or applicable regulatory requirements. 
 
The sponsor decides to terminate the study at any time for any other reason. 
Furthermore, the study may be prematurely ended if the regulatory authority or the IRB has decided to terminate 
or suspend approval for the study, the study site, or the investigator. 
If the study is prematurely terminated or suspended for any reason, the investigator must inform the subjects and 
assure appropriate follow-up treatment. Within the timeframes noted in applicable regulations, the sponsor will 
promptly inform the investigators, study sites, the IRB, and regulatory authorities of the termination or suspension 
of the study, as well as provide reasons for the action. 
CONFIDENTIAL – PROPRIETARY INFORMATION 
 
 
Protocol Number: L18007 v3.0 09272018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 23 of 44 
 
6. 
STUDY PROCEDURES AND SCHEDULE 
6.1 
STUDY IMAGES 
Standardized baseline and follow-up images will be taken. 
All subject photos must be taken in a standardized format. Review each item on the checklist below every time study 
photos are taken to ensure “Standardized Images” are taken.  
 
 
 
                       
 
FIGURE 3: EXAMPLE HAND PHOTOGRAPHY: 3 IMAGES, BOTH, RIGHT, LEFT 
 
 
CONFIDENTIAL – PROPR
... [truncated]