Study Population
Patients with severe COPD
Sample Size
30
Study Duration for 
individual 
participants
9 months 
Study Specific 
Abbreviations/ 
Definitions 
EA – electro-acupuncture
PR – pulmonary rehabilitation
PROTOCOL TITLE: Exploring the Dose-Response Effect of Adjunctive Acupuncture on 
Pulmonary Rehabilitation: A Pilot Study 
Page 4 of 20
v.12.19.2023
2.0
Objectives*
•
Explore Adjunctive acupuncture effect on QOL and quantitative measures for 
Chronic COPD patient undergoing pulmonary rehab.
•
Explore the dose response relationship between adjunctive acupuncture and 
improvement in pulmonary function and/or quality of life. 
•
Explore the effect of EA on inflammatory markers in patients undergoing PR
Hypotheses
•
EA will: will significantly improve QOL and quantitative measures for 
Chronic COPD patient undergoing pulmonary rehab.
•
There will be a significant dose response relationship between adjunctive 
acupuncture and improvement in pulmonary function and/or quality of life. 
•
EA will significantly reduce inflammatory markers in patients undergoing PR
3.0
Background*
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), is the fourth leading cause of death in the 
US (www.cdc.gov). COPD affects more than 15 million Americans. More than 140,000 
Americans die of COPD each year approximately 1 death every 4 minutes.
Though tobacco smoke is the primary cause, 1 in 4 people with COPD have never 
smoked. Their disease has resulted from air pollutants at home (secondhand smoke), at 
work (fumes). Symptoms include chronic or smoker’s cough, chronic phlegm production, 
shortness of breath, and wheezing. Early detection and treatment of COPD may change its 
course. This is usually via pulmonary function tests and chest x-ray often through the 
patients’ primary care. 
Treatment requires a careful and thorough evaluation, avoiding tobacco smoke, and 
removing air pollutants from the home and at work. As the disease progresses symptoms 
may initially be treated with medication. If the disease continues to worsen occasionally 
surgery may help, removing emphysematous areas. Another successful approach to severe 
COPD is pulmonary rehabilitation see below.
In 2015, CDC’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR), reported that rural US 
residents experienced higher rates of COPD prevalence, COPD-related Medicare-covered 
hospitalizations, and deaths than residents living in more urban counties (those with 
populations of at least 10,000 people): The percentage of adults in rural areas diagnosed 
with COPD has nearly double the percentage in large metropolitan areas. Approximately 
8% in rural areas as compared to 5% in metropolitan areas. Hospitalizations among 
Medicare enrollees for COPD were about 14 per 1000 enrollees in rural areas compared 
PROTOCOL TITLE: Exploring the Dose-Response Effect of Adjunctive Acupuncture on 
Pulmonary Rehabilitation: A Pilot Study 
Page 5 of 20
v.12.19.2023
with about 11 per 1000 enrollees in large metropolitan centers. Death rates from COPD 
were also greater among people living in rural areas (55 per 100,000 people) compared 
with people living in large metropolitan centers (32 per 100,000 people). New Hampshire 
and Vermont are largely rural states.
Costs
In 2010, costs attributable to having COPD were $32.1 billion and were projected to 
increase to $49.0 billion by 2020. Medicare paid 51% of those costs with 25% paid by 
Medicaid and 18% paid by private insurance in 2010. Total absenteeism costs were $3.9 
billion in 2010 with an estimated 16.4 million days of work lost because of COPD.
Dyspnea is a cardinal symptom of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and 
its severity and magnitude increase as the disease progresses. This can lead to significant 
disability and reduction on quality of life. Refractory dyspnea is a common and difficult 
symptom to treat in patients with advanced COPD. 
Evidence supports the benefits of oral opioids, neuromuscular electrical stimulation, chest 
wall vibration, walking aids and pursed-lip breathing in the management of dyspnea in 
the individual patient with advanced COPD. Oxygen is recommended for COPD patients 
with resting hypoxemia, though should be reserved for patients who receive symptomatic 
benefit. Up until the present the evidence has been mixed to support the routine use of 
anxiolytic medications, nebulized opioids, acupuncture, acupressure, distractive auditory 
stimuli (music), relaxation, handheld fans, counselling programs or psychotherapy(1).
What is Pulmonary Rehabilitation?
Pulmonary rehabilitation is a program of education and exercise that teach patients with 
severe COPD how to manage breathing, increase exercise tolerance and decrease dyspnea 
or breathlessness. The education part of the program teaches patient how to control their 
breathing to pace breathing with activities, how to take medicines optimally and how best 
to work with your health care team. The exercise sessions are supervised by a pulmonary 
rehabilitation staff that prepares a personalized exercise program. Typically, exercise start 
at the highest tolerable level for the patient, either sitting or standing. The amount of time 
spent exercising and the difficulty of the exercises are slowly increased with time. As you 
get stronger, and develop more endurance, breathlessness reduces.
Most Pulmonary Rehabilitation programs meet two to three times a week and programs 
can last 4 to 12 weeks or more. Program staff constantly monitor patient progress 
adjusting and increasing exercise as patients are able.
PROTOCOL TITLE: Exploring the Dose-Response Effect of Adjunctive Acupuncture on 
Pulmonary Rehabilitation: A Pilot Study 
Page 6 of 20
v.12.19.2023
What is Acupuncture?
Acupuncture is a method of encouraging the body to promote natural healing and to 
improve functioning through the application of needles and heat or other forms of energy 
such as electricity at specific points on the body. 
Acupuncture is one of the oldest, most commonly used medical procedures in the world. 
Though most familiar as an East Asian practice being documented in China for at least 
2000 yrs. its origins are probably much older as evidenced by the acupuncture points 
tattooed on Ötzi the Bronze Age traveler thawed out of the Austrian Alps (1991). It first 
came to general attention in the US in 1971 when New York Times reporter James 
Reston wrote about how doctors in Beijing, China, used needles to ease his abdominal 
pain after surgery. 
Acupuncture research has shown its benefit in treating a wide variety of conditions. It has 
grown rapidly in uses. In 1993, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) estimated 
that Americans made 9 to 12 million visits per year to acupuncture practitioners and spent 
as much as $500 million on acupuncture treatments.1 In 1995, an estimated 10,000 
nationally certified acupuncturists were practicing in the United States. By the year 2000, 
that number is expected to double. Currently, an estimated one-third of certified 
acupuncturists in the United States are medical doctors.
The National Institutes of Health (NIH) has funded a variety of research projects on 
acupuncture that have been awarded by its National Center for Complementary and 
Alternative Medicine (NCCAM), National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, 
National Institute of Dental Research, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and 
Stroke.
Mechanisms of Action
From the western frame, several processes have been proposed to explain acupuncture's 
effects, primarily those on pain. Acupuncture is believed to:
•Stimulate the central nervous system (the brain and spinal cord) to release 
chemicals into the muscles, spinal cord, and brain. These chemicals either change the 
experience of pain or release other chemicals, such as hormones, that influence the body's 
self-regulating systems. The biochemical changes may stimulate the body's natural 
healing abilities and promote physical and emotional well-being. 
•Conduct electromagnetic signals. Scientists have found evidence that acupuncture 
points are strategic conductors of electromagnetic signals. Stimulating points along these 
pathways through acupuncture enables electromagnetic signals to be relayed at a greater 
PROTOCOL TITLE: Exploring the Dose-Response Effect of Adjunctive Acupuncture on 
Pulmonary Rehabilitation: A Pilot Study 
Page 7 of 20
v.12.19.2023
rate than under normal conditions. These signals may start the flow of pain-killing 
biochemicals such as endorphins and of immune system cells to specific sites that are 
injured or vulnerable to disease.
•Activate the opioid systems: research has found that several types of opioids may 
be released into the central nervous system during acupuncture treatment, thereby 
reducing pain. Potentially also alleviating dyspnea through beta endorphin induction(2). 
•Change the release of neurotransmitters and neurohormones 
•Change the parts of the central nervous system related to sensation and 
involuntary body functions, such as immune reactions and processes whereby a person's 
blood pressure, blood flow, and body temperature are regulated.
Innovation
There are several challenges in doing acupuncture research(3).  The challenges we will 
focus on here are that of dose, response and control. The control issue is probably the best 
known of these issues. Essentially, is it possible to find a nonfunctional point on a person 
and is a sham needle truly inactive. There have been ample studies showing similar 
effects of sham needles to true or verum needles in clinical outcome at least in studies 
where the intervention and follow up are short in duration. The challenges here boil down 
to time, place and whether is there such a thing as a placebo. The time question is driven 
by the placebo effect. Almost all active clinical acts result in some improvement. If I give 
sugar pill to controls and a known anti-hypertensive to subjects, some portion of 
... [truncated]