STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT02362594
Section: PRO_ENDPOINTS
Features: pro_qol, consistency_bridging, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

an will be jointly developed for each 
project. These documents will be developed and approved before starting any analysis. They 
will specify the analytical and methodological details. Clinical and patient-reported outcome 
data will be stored in the EORTC clinical database and biological investigational data will be 
stored in respective collaborating institutions. Transfer of data will be performed according 
to applicable policies in each organization (e.g. EORTC POL008) or according to jointly 
approved data transfer charters. 
12.5 General principles for human biological material (HBM) 
collection 
Human biological material (HBM) collection involves the collection and storage of 
biological material, residual biological material or derivatives in compliance with ethical and 
technical requirements.  
 
 
04WNSZ
 
 
052Q4V
EORTC-1325-MG/ KEYNOTE 054 
Immunotherapy with anti-PD in stage III melanoma 
EORTC v7.0/MK-3475-054-03 
page 108 / 204 
February 28, 2018 
Biobanking refers to the chain of procedures that encompass the life cycle of the biological 
material, e.g. from collection, shipping to long term storage and use, and may also be subject 
to local regulation and/or national/international legislation. 
In this study, biological material for translational research will be centralized and stored at 
Institut de Cancérologie Gustave Roussy, Paris, France. The biobank will perform the above 
research project as stated in the protocol. In addition the biobank will distribute HBM to the 
other research laboratories involved in the translational research (TR) projects that will be 
defined in the future.  
The following principles apply to storage of HBM: 
♦ The collected HBM should be documented, i.e. the amount remaining and its location. 
The study chairman (SC) and the study coordinator (SC) will be responsible for TR project 
review and prioritization, including the consideration of newly proposed TR projects not 
specified in the protocol. 
Access to HBM is defined by the EORTC Biobanking Policy POL020 and will follow the 
next steps:  
A short description of the new TR projects will be written and submitted to EORTC HQ for 
coordination with SCs. 
♦ The SCs will prioritize the TR projects. Access procedures defined by the SCs will build 
on the following key points:  
♦ Project prioritization  
♦ should be strongly based on scientific merit,  
♦ should consider the contribution of the different investigators to the trial and TR 
project,  
♦ will take into consideration if the applicant is an EORTC member or not (whilst 
maintaining the principle of access to the wider scientific community and 
commitments owed to study participants and ethical committees). 
♦ Protection of confidentiality must be respected. 
♦ An EORTC HQ feasibility check, including recommendations for regulatory and ethical 
matters and other restrictions on the use of the HBM, will take place. If in the event the 
HBM collections are still retained at individual clinical sites, the TR project leader and 
the involved EORTC Group are responsible for collecting and providing information on 
availability of HBM for the feasibility assessment. 
♦ Prioritized TR projects will then be reviewed by the Translational Research Advisory 
Committee (TRAC). 
♦ Once SCs prioritization, the EORTC HQ feasibility assessment, and TRAC review are 
complete and when all applicable competent Ethics Committees approvals are in place 
and ethical principles are met, the TR project can be activated and HBM release and 
analysis can commence. 
♦ The EORTC Board will mediate any disagreements of opinion between TRAC, the 
EORTC HQ feasibility assessment, the SCs and the TR project leader(s), as needed. 
 
 
04WNSZ
 
 
052Q4V
EORTC-1325-MG/ KEYNOTE 054 
Immunotherapy with anti-PD in stage III melanoma 
EORTC v7.0/MK-3475-054-03 
page 109 / 204 
February 28, 2018 
13 Investigator authorization procedure 
Investigators will be authorized to register and/or randomize patients in this trial only once 
the following documents have been provided: 
♦ The updated signed and dated curriculum vitae of the Principal Investigator in English 
with a GCP training proof. 
♦ The (updated) list of normal ranges for the investigator’s institution signed and dated by 
the head of the laboratory. Please make sure normal ranges are provided also for those 
tests required by the protocol but not routinely done at the investigator’s institution. 
♦ The Confirmation of interest, confirming that the investigator will fully comply with the 
protocol. This must include an estimate of yearly accrual and a statement on any conflict 
of interest that may arise due to trial participation. 
 
NB: A signed conflict of interest disclosure form will be required only if a possible 
conflict is declared.  
♦ The Study Agreement with investigator’s institution. 
♦ A copy of the favorable opinion of the local or national (whichever is applicable) ethics 
committee mentioning the documents that were reviewed (including the version numbers 
and version dates of all documents). A list of all members of the ethics committee is also 
requested. 
♦ A copy of the translated and adapted (according to all national re