STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03089125
Section: PRO_ENDPOINTS
Features: pro_qol, pro_endpoints
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

jectory of between-group differences in these variables across all study time points. 
 
6.3.3 Aim 3 
Aim 3: To explore mediators and moderators of the effect of the brief behavioral 
intervention on patient-reported outcomes. 
Hypothesis 3: Intervention effects on patient-reported dyspnea will be mediated by 
improved mastery in managing breathlessness and potentially moderated by patient 
demographic and clinical factors (e.g., gender, age, opioid use, performance status, and 
disease comorbidity). 
Analyses: We will conduct bootstrapped tests of mediation to determine whether group 
differences in self-reported dyspnea (outcomes: MMRCDS and CDS) are mediated by 
improved mastery in managing the symptom (mediator: CRQ). Finally, we will create 
interaction terms for the GEE analyses and linear mixed models to examine whether 
differences in reported dyspnea are moderated by patient factors (e.g., gender, age, opioid 
use, etc.). 
 
6.3.4 Exploratory Analyses of Service Utilization 
Although we likely will not have sufficient power to examine statistically the intervention 
effects on service utilization, we will at a minimum calculate descriptive statistics on 
Brief Behavioral Intervention for Dyspnea in Patients with Advanced Lung Cancer 
Version 1.19, 11/15/2021 
25 
 
rates of ED visits and hospitalizations by study group. Otherwise, if possible, we will 
conduct Fisher’s exact tests and logistic regression to explore differences in rates of ED 
visits and hospitalizations between groups, controlling for any confounders as needed. 
 
6.4 Handling of Missing Data 
The analyses will initially focus on the study completers to estimate the effect of the brief 
behavioral intervention in patients with advanced lung cancer who completed the protocol as 
intended without imposing assumptions about missing data. We will also use the intention-to-treat 
principle with all randomized subjects, conducting sensitivity analyses to explore how various 
assumptions about missing data and differences between completers and non-completers affect the 
estimated outcomes. If data appear to be missing at random, we will employ multiple imputation 
methods. However, if we find that patients do not complete the study because of disease worsening, 
suggesting missing data are not random, we will employ maximum likelihood estimation from 
incomplete data, under the direction of our biostatistician, Ms. Muzikansky. 
 
6.5 Potential Problems, Alternative Strategies and Benchmarks for Success 
The potential problems and alternative strategies that we considered in developing this study 
proposal pertain to the selection of interventionists, length of treatment, and nature of the control 
group. Specifically, we recognize that patients with advanced lung cancer may benefit from 
meeting with clinical psychologists and/or social workers with trained expertise in behavioral 
medicine. Although increasing contact with such clinicians may enhance the robustness of the 
intervention, we are responding to the present challenges that exist in meeting the psychosocial and 
symptom management needs of patients with cancer. Access to supportive care for oncology 
patients is limited not only by the inadequate number of mental health and palliative care providers, 
but also by insufficient training of existing clinicians with respect to empirically-supported 
techniques, such as cognitive-behavioral approaches.43 In our national survey of community 
oncologists, a majority reported that they lack access to mental health providers for referrals.70,71 
We therefore decided to administer the point-of-care dyspnea intervention, delivered by trained 
oncology nurses, as we observed that this approach was feasible and preferable to patients with 
advanced lung cancer. Similarly, prior studies of comprehensive dyspnea management 
interventions include numerous visits with multiple medical providers across several months.37,46 
Given the disease burden of the patient populations in the proposed study, we chose to keep the 
intervention brief, delivered in tandem with existing outpatient appointments. Despite this short- 
time frame of the targeted behavioral intervention, we nonetheless observed a large effect size for 
self-reported dyspnea over time in our pilot study.23 Interventions that can be integrated within the 
flow of care that are minimally resource intensive yet effective have greater potential for broad 
adoption and implementation across diverse cancer care settings. Finally, we elected to conduct a 
RCT with a usual care control group rather than employ alternate experimental methods, such as a 
wait-list crossover or staggered treatment design, because of the shortened life expectancy of the 
study population. We also considered, but ultimately did not include, an attention-matched control 
group given the lack of an alternative, evidence-based psychosocial comparator as well as potential 
ethical considerations of asking patients with advanced disease to meet with a clinician for some 
sort of “sham” treatment. Moreover, no data suggest that attention alone would influence dyspnea. 
Otherwise, we will not limit access to usual care but rather examin