STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03906071
Section: PRO_ENDPOINTS
Features: pro_qol, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, consistency_bridging, non_proportional_hazards, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1). 
− Duration of Response (DOR); 
− Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR); 
− Progression-Free Survival (PFS); and 
− 1-Year Survival Rate. 
• Blood plasma concentrations of MGCD516. 
• Patient reported outcome (PROs): 
− Lung Cancer Symptom Scale (LCSS); and 
− European Quality of Life Five Dimensions Questionnaire (EQ-
5D-5L). 
Exploratory 
Endpoints: 
• Tumor PD-L1 expression. 
Tumor gene alterations. 
• Circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA). 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0 – Phase 3 in NSCLC 
 
Confidential 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) with Nivolumab 
 
Page 22 of 132  
 
 
 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Efficacy parameters as evaluated per iRECIST. 
• Nivolumab anti-drug antibody (ADA) 
Study Design: 
Study 516-005 is an open-label, randomized (1:1), multicenter, Phase 3 
clinical trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of nivolumab in 
combination with the investigational agent sitravatinib compared to 
docetaxel in patients with advanced non-squamous NSCLC who have 
previously experienced radiographic disease progression on or after 
treatment with CIT either administered in combination with platinum-
based chemotherapy or following platinum-based chemotherapy. The 
primary objective is to compare OS in the two treatment arms. Secondary 
objectives include evaluation of safety and tolerability, secondary efficacy 
endpoints, PK of sitravatinib, and patient reported outcomes. Correlative 
science endpoints include tumor PD-L1 expression, tumor gene mutations, 
nivolumab ADA and ctDNA. The Schedule of Assessments to be 
performed in the study is presented in Table 1. 
Patient eligibility for study enrollment based on radiographic disease 
progression on or after treatment with CIT and platinum-based 
chemotherapy will be evaluated by the Investigator. Data entered into the 
case report form (CRF) are to include the date of at least one radiographic 
evaluation prior to the occurrence of disease progression on most recent 
CIT treatment and the date the radiographic evaluation demonstrating 
disease progression, as well as specifics about organ systems (eg, lung, 
liver, lymph node, bone and/or brain) having tumors that increase in size or 
are new. 
Patient randomization will be stratified based on: 
1. Prior treatment regimens in the advanced setting (1 versus 2); 
2. ECOG Performance Status at baseline (0 versus 1); and 
3. Presence of brain metastasis at baseline (presence versus absence). 
Patients randomized to the experimental arm will receive treatment with 
nivolumab in combination with sitravatinib, delivered in 28-day cycles. 
Nivolumab will be administered as an infusion over approximately 
30 minutes at 240 mg every 2 weeks or 480 mg every 4 weeks, at the 
discretion of the Investigator. Patients that are randomized under this 
protocol version will receive sitravatinib malate capsule formulation 
administered orally at starting dose of 100 mg once daily (QD). Patients 
enrolled in the USA who began treatment with the sitravatinib free base 
capsule formulation will remain on the free base capsule formulation 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0 – Phase 3 in NSCLC 
 
Confidential 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) with Nivolumab 
 
Page 23 of 132  
 
 
 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
throughout the duration of the study; the starting dose of sitravatinib free 
base capsule formulation is 120 mg QD. 
Patients randomized to the comparator arm will receive treatment with 
docetaxel, delivered in 21-day cycles. Docetaxel will be administered by 
intravenous infusion at 75 mg/m2 over 1 hour or according to institutional 
practices, every 3 weeks. Premedication with dexamethasone (or 
institutional equivalent) will be required in accordance with regional 
standards. 
Disease assessments and patient-reported outcomes questionnaires must be 
performed as scheduled according to the calendar to prevent the 
introduction of bias based on toxicity into the assessment of efficacy. 
Disease response and progression per RECIST 1.1 as documented by the 
Investigator in the CRF will be the basis for patient management and 
supportive statistical analyses of radiology-based study endpoints. 
Central radiology review for disease response and progression will be 
conducted. Timely and complete disease assessments and transfer of 
radiographic documentation to the Central Radiology Laboratory is critical 
to the integrity of this clinical trial. 
Patients will receive study treatment as assigned at randomization until 
disease progression, unacceptable adverse events, investigator decision, 
patient refusal or death. Patients experiencing clinical benefit in the 
judgment of the Investigator may continue study treatment beyond disease 
progression as defined by RECIST 1.1 if the progression is not rapid, 
symptomatic, or requiring urgent medical intervention. Patients 
considering continuation of study treatment beyond RECIST 1.1 defined 
disease progression must be provided with and sign an informed consent 
detailing any available therapies and potential clinical benefit that the 
patient may be foregoing by continuing study treatment. Patients 
remaining on study treatment beyond RECIST 1.1. defined progression 
will c