STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT02395172
Section: PRO_ENDPOINTS
Features: pro_qol, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, consistency_bridging, hierarchical_testing, interim_analysis
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

periodic safety review and interim efficacy 
review by the Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC). 
Separate or supplemental analysis plans might be written to cover:
x
x
Additional analyses of patient reported outcomes
x
8.1
Sequence of Analyses
The following analyses will be performed during this trial. As the data cut-off date for both the 
interim efficacy and the final analysis will be prospectively determined based on event projection 
provided by the unblinded team, the actual number of PD-L1+ events may be slightly different
from the planned number as indicated below.
x Interim efficacy analysis: will be performed after approximately 75% of events (deaths)
required for final analysis have been observed in PD-L1+ subjects.
x Final analysis: will be performed after approximately 337 events have been observed in PD-
L1+ subjects.
There will be a partial database lock for both the interim analyses and the primary analysis. 
There will be ongoing interim analyses for periodic safety reviews by the IDMC. Details will be 
provided in the IDMC charter and the IDMC SAP. 
8.2
Interim Analysis
An IDMC will be formed and will be responsible for periodic safety evaluations of the trial as well 
as the evaluation of the interim efficacy analysis. The IDMC will consist of a group of five experts 
who will be neither participants in the trial nor employees of the Sponsor of this trial, nor the 
independent statistical provider who is not a voting member of the IDMC. An IDMC charter will 
provide details about the conduct of the IDMC meeting and decision-making rules.
For this trial there will be one interim efficacy analysis, which will be conducted after the 
prospectively determined data cut-off date when the number of PD-L1+ events reaches close to 
253 based on the monthly event projection provided by the unblinded team. The O’Brien-Fleming 
information fraction for type I error and the efficacy boundaries based on a Lan-DeMets spending 
function are presented in Table 1 for different number of PD-L1+ events at the interim analysis.
The actual alpha spent at the interim analysis will be calculated based on the actual number of PD-
L1+ events as of the data cut-off date for the internal analysis. The type I error and the efficacy 
CCI
CCI
Avelumab
Avelumab in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
EMR 100070-004
19/86
boundary for the final analysis will be adjusted accordingly based on the actual alpha spent at the 
interim analysis and the actual number of PD-L1+ events at the final analysis.
Table 1: Planned Lan-DeMets (O’Brien-Fleming) Efficacy Boundaries of OS
Look
Info Fraction
(t)
Approx. 
Cum. 
Events
Cumulative Type I 
Error
(1-sided)
Efficacy Boundaries
z-scale
Interim
~75%
253
.00965
2.34
76.5%
258
.01039
2.31
78%
263
.01115
2.29
79.5% 
268
.01194
2.26
81.0%
273
.01276
2.23
82.5%
278
.01360
2.21
Final
100%
337
0.025
Will be adjusted based on interim
outcome and the actual number of 
PD-L1+ events at the final analysis
Lan-DeMets alpha spending function for O’Brien-Fleming boundaries
The overall type I error rate = 0.025 (1-sided) for primary endpoint of PD-L1+ OS.
The exact efficacy boundaries may be updated prior to the time of analysis based on the actual number of events and the 
information fraction.
The primary endpoint, OS, key secondary endpoints analysis including PFS and BOR, and safety 
analysis will be conducted in this interim analysis. The interim analysis of efficacy endpoints will 
be conducted on the FAS, with the primary analysis population being the PD-L1+ subset of the
FAS. The IDMC will also be presented with subject disposition, subject background, baseline 
disease and demographic information, along with safety information. 
After the prospectively determined number of PD-L1+ events are observed for the interim analysis,
the independent statistical provider will prepare the outputs in agreement with the IDMC charter 
and transmit the analyses, tabulations, and listings to the IDMC for the meeting. Results from the 
interim safety and efficacy analysis will be transmitted from this group to the IDMC only. The
independent support IDMC statistician will be available at the IDMC meeting should any questions 
from the IDMC members arise regarding the data and / or analyses. Study staff involved with the 
day to day management of the trial, as well as any Sponsor staff, will not have access to this interim 
information until the trial is stopped at interim as recommended by the IDMC.
The hierarchical testing strategy will be employed for the interim analysis. If the one-sided p-value
from the stratified log-rank test of OS is below the significance level at the interim analysis based 
on a Lan-DeMets alpha spending function for O’Brien-Fleming boundaries (See Table 1), the 
treatment difference will be claimed as statistically significant and the secondary endpoints will 
be tested within the hierarchical testing strategy at the same nominal significance level. Details of 
hierarchical testing strategy are provided in Section 16.  
Avelumab
Avelumab in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
EMR 100070-004
20/86
Since the formal efficacy boundaries will be used at the interim analysis for the statistical testing
of OS, a st