STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03494166
Section: PRO_ENDPOINTS
Features: pro_qol, consistency_bridging, pro_endpoints
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

plete the study. 
 
Measures 
All measures have good reliability (α >.80)38,150,185,188 and validity, have been translated, and tested with 
Spanish speaking participants in our pilot studies.39, 180 Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement 
Information System (PROMIS)189,190 measures have been developed using sophisticated measurement 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Version Date:  09/10/2021 
 
 
Page 14 
 
techniques, tested with over 21,000 individuals, calibrated to produce t-scores based on the general 
population, and are available in either English or Spanish. Measures are in Appendix A. 
 
Primary outcome 
Symptoms will be measured using the adapted General Symptom Distress Scale (GSDS),190,191 that 
allows for a quick assessment of symptoms, which is especially important during weekly calls. It 
evaluates 18 symptoms: fatigue, sleep difficulties, pain, headache, difficulty concentrating, lack of 
appetite, nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, numbness or tingling, skin rashes, swelling, weakness, 
shortness of breath, cough, depression, anxiety. Respondents indicate presence of each symptom (yes/no) 
and rate their severity if present on the scale from 1 to 10. The ability to manage symptoms is also 
assessed on a scale from 0=cannot manage to 10=can manage extremely well. The GSDS has good test-
retest and internal consistency reliability (≥0.8) and predictive and construct validity in both English and 
Spanish.191 A summed symptom severity index will be derived from each weekly contact, baseline, and 
13-week interviews. 
 
Secondary outcomes 
We will consider responses that are specific to each of the multiple symptoms that will be treated as 
nested within survivors. Response on depression will be applied as the criterion for re-randomization at 
week 4. Responses for all 15 symptoms during weeks 1-13 will be defined for Hypothesis 1, and 
responses during weeks 5-13 will be defined for Hypothesis 2. For responders, time to response will be 
defined as time in days from symptom onset to the date of the first sustained improvement among 
none/mild, moderate or severe categories. For non-responders, time to response will be treated as 
censored according to the principles of survival analysis. 
Depression. The Center for Epidemiologic Studies – Depression (CES-D) scale is a widely used measure 
of depressive symptoms within non-psychiatric populations.92,192,193 This measure has a reliability 
exceeding .90. At baseline, it will be used for need status determination, and at week 13 it will provide an 
additional measure of depressive symptoms to supplement the GSGS depression item. 
Comorbidity. Comorbidity will be measured with the Bayliss tool that queries the presence of 20 
comorbidities175 and used for need status determination at baseline. The internal consistency reliability is 
not applicable to a checklist. 
Potential Mediators. PROMIS short forms (SF) have established validity and α >.80. 189,190,194 
Self-efficacy. The PROMIS 8-item SF will be administered in interviews.195-198 Self-efficacy symptom 
management will also be captured by the GSDS item described above during interviews and weekly 
calls.  
Social support. The PROMIS 8-item SF for instrumental and emotional support will be used in 
interviews.195-198 
 
7.0 
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF INTERVENTION 
Describe in detail for intervention studies or indicate otherwise by checking below:  
 
Two interventions with proven efficacy 4,37-39 will be used: 1) a minimal intervention, the printed 
Symptom Management and Survivorship Guide (SMSG) with evidence-based self-care strategies for elevated 
symptoms and 2) a more intensive intervention that combines SMSG with a Telephone Interpersonal Counseling 
(TIP-C) intervention for managing depressive symptoms.39,40 
 
a). Symptom Management and Survivorship Handbook (SMSH) contains 15 symptom-
specific modules for the symptoms assessed in this study. Each module has an identical format 
(Frequently Asked Questions): what the symptom is, how people describe the symptom, the causes of 
the symptom including medications, and a set of strategies presented in bullet points for managing the 
symptom. For each symptom, there are indications as to when and for what reasons to contact the health 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Version Date:  09/10/2021 
 
 
Page 15 
 
care provider and other resources are listed for management. Modules on survivorship are based on the 
American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Guidelines for breast and colorectal cancer 
survivors.105,106 The previously tested English version was translated into Spanish using an adaptation of 
Brislin’s translation/back translation process180 used by this team in the past. Professor Jaime Fatás-
Cabeza, Director of the Undergraduate Translation and Interpretation Program in the Department of 
Spanish and Portuguese at the University of Arizona, oversaw the translation of the SMSH, producing a 
Spanish language version suitable for readers with an 8th grade education. Three cultural experts 
performed back translations of a random sample of pages from the SMSH for comparison to the original 
English language versions, and all discrepancies between the back translated and ori