STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT02034110
Section: PRO_ENDPOINTS
Features: pro_qol, consistency_bridging, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, interim_analysis
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

DRA
MM
MRD
NGGCT
NSGCT
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities
Multiple Myeloma
Minimal Residual Disease
Non-geminomatous germ cell tumor
Non-seminomatous germ cell tumor
PK
Pharmacokinetics
PRO
Patient-reported Outcomes
RAP
Reporting & Analysis Process
SAP
SAS
Statistical Analysis Plan
Statistical Analysis System
TFLs
Tables, Figures, Listings
WHO
World Health Organization
Novartis
For business use only
Page 6 of 35
SAP
CDRB436X2201 / BRF117019
1
Introduction
This statistical analysis plan (SAP) details all planned analyses to support the final clinical study 
report (CSR) and publication of final study results from BRF117019/CDRB436X2201.  This is 
a phase II study to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of the combination therapy of 
dabrafenib (DRB436) and trametinib (TMT212) using a single-arm multi-histology study 
design in several rare cancer types. 
In this SAP, references will be made to the following documents: 
•
Protocol amendment 11 dated 04 Jun 2020
•
Annotated electronic Case Report Form (eCRF) BRF117019/CDRB436X2201 SV16.0
•
Charter for the Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) version 2.0 dated 23 
Jun 2016
1.1
Study design
This is a Phase II, open-label, non-randomized, multi-center study of oral dabrafenib in 
combination with oral trametinib in subjects with rare cancers with the BRAF V600E mutation.  
The following histologies will be included in this study: ATC, BTC, GIST, WHO Grade 1 or 2 
glioma, WHO Grade 3 or 4 glioma, NSGCT/NGGCT, ASI, HCL and MM (Cohorts 1 to 9, 
respectively). 
For each cohort, up to 25 evaluable subjects will be enrolled in the primary analysis cohort. If 
a given cohort is stopped early for efficacy, a histology specific expansion cohort may be 
opened to allow for additional patient enrollment.  
The primary analysis cohort is comprised of those patients enrolled within a histology-specific 
group prior to capping at 25 patients per cohort or prior to early stopping for efficacy or futility. 
The primary analysis cohort will form the basis of the Bayesian modelling of ORR. 
If a cohort closes early at an interim analysis because it meets the rules for early stopping for 
efficacy, an expansion cohort may be opened to allow additional patient enrollment for that 
particular histology. The patients in the expansion cohort will provide supportive efficacy data 
and will NOT contribute to the Bayesian modeling of ORR. The expansion cohort(s) will enroll 
subjects for the duration of trial enrollment. 
Only subjects with histologically or cytologically confirmed advanced disease with no available 
treatment options as determined by locally or regionally available standards of care and by the 
treating physician’s discretion will be eligible for enrollment.  Subjects may be enrolled based 
on local testing of the BRAF V600E mutation and mutation status will be confirmed by a central 
reference laboratory.  
Subjects will receive dabrafenib 150 mg BID orally plus trametinib 2 mg once daily orally on 
a continuous dosing schedule.  An adaptive design with multiple interim evaluations will 
determine if one or more histologic cohorts should discontinue enrolment early due to either 
success or futility.  Evaluations are based on a hierarchical statistical model that borrows 
information in a limited way from histologies that demonstrate similar response rates based on 
the accumulated trial data.  A complete description of the study design and rationale is included 
in the Protocol.
Novartis
For business use only
Page 8 of 35
SAP
CDRB436X2201 / BRF117019
Data from all participating centers will be pooled prior to analysis. Subject accrual is spread 
thinly across centers and summaries of data by center would be unlikely to be informative and 
therefore will not be provided.
All data up to death or study withdrawal will be included in each analysis.  Unscheduled visits 
will not be included in summaries, except to derive minimum/maximum post-baseline or on-
treatment values. Unscheduled visits will be presented in subject listings.
Planned times relative to study drug dosing will be used in all tables and summary figures.
Unless otherwise stated, continuous variables will be summarized with n, mean, median, 
standard deviation, minimum and maximum, and categorical variables will be summarized with 
frequency counts and percentages. 
2.1.1
General definitions
Study treatment
Study treatment in this study refers to either dabrafenib or trametinib.
Reference dates
There are two reference dates:

The date of screening is the reference date for determination of age, since age is an 
eligibility requirement. 

The study treatment start date is the reference date for efficacy and safety.
Study day
If the date of interest occurs on or after the reference date then the study day will be calculated 
as (date of interest - reference date) + 1. If the date of interest occurs before the reference date
then the study day will be calculated as (date of interest – reference date). There is no study day 
0.
Duration and elapsed time
Durations (e.g., the duration of an adverse event, duration of exposure, etc.) are calculated as
the stop date minus the start date plus one.
For elapsed t