STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03836066
Section: PRO_ENDPOINTS
Features: pro_qol, consistency_bridging, immunotherapy, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

e ORR and PFS according PD-L1 expression of Atezolizumab in combination with 
Bevacizumab. 
• 
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of Atezolizumab in combination with Bevacizumab. 
• 
To evaluate patient-reported outcomes (PROs) of lung cancer symptoms, patient 
functioning, and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) as measured by the European 
Organisation for Research and treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality-of-life Questionnaire 
Core 30 (QLQ C30) and its Lung Cancer Module (QLQ LC13) of Atezolizumab in combination 
with Bevacizumab. 
 
Exploratory Objectives 
 
Foundation one: 
 
• 
To determine the tumor mutational burden (TMB) and determine its association with all 4 
types of genomic alteration (Indels, mutation, CNV, rearrangement) in 324 tumor related 
genes, MSI and determine by FoundationOne CDx# (F1CDx), and other biomarkers such as 
tumor PD-L1 expression. 
• 
To investigate genomics alteration change measure in blood after progression measured 
with FoundationOne®Liquid, in respect with genomics alteration measure by FoundationOne 
CDx# (F1CDx) in tissue including genomics signatures (MSI and TMB) at progression. 
• 
To evaluate the clinical utility of the TMB results/reports in patients with TMB<10, 
mutations/MB describing druggable alterations or driver mutation that influence treatment 
selection. 
• 
To evaluate overall survival (OS) and ORR of atezolizumab in combination with bevacizumab 
based on the TMB analysis in blood and in tumor)  
 
Additional pharmacogenomic exploratory analysis: 
• 
To evaluate the basal peripheral blood TCR and BCR repertoire and their changes during 
treatment, as well as, their correlation with clinical variables associated with treatment 
efficacy (ORR, PFS, OS, DOR).   
• 
To study the levels of peripheral blood immune cells and soluble factors from plasma 
samples considering their changes during treatment, as well as, their correlation with clinical 
variables associated with treatment efficacy (ORR, PFS, OS, DOR).   
• 
To determine the pre-treatment fecal microbiome of all patients included in the study and 
its predictive value in terms of ORR, PFS, OS and DOR. 
  
 
Eligibility criteria:  
Inclusion criteria: 
1. Male or female, aged g 18 years old 
2. ECOG performance status of 0 or 1. 
 
 
 
 
 
Confidential 
 
 
 
13 of 129  
Protocol_TELMA_GECP 18/03_ML40237_v.5.1_01Jul2024 
3. Histologically or cytologically confirmed, Stage IIIB - IV non-squamous NSCLC according to 8th 
version of the International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer Staging Manual in 
Thoracic Oncology 
4. No prior treatment for Stage IIIB - IV non-squamous NSCLC. 
5. Patients who have received prior neo-adjuvant, adjuvant chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or 
chemo-radiotherapy with curative intent for non-metastatic disease must have experienced 
a treatment-free interval of at least 6 months from enrollment since the last chemotherapy, 
radiotherapy, or chemo-radiotherapy. 
6. Patients with a treated asymptomatic CNS metastasis are eligible, provided they meet all of 
the following criteria: 
a. Only supratentorial and cerebellar metastases allowed (i.e., no metastases to 
midbrain, pons, medulla or spinal cord). 
b. No ongoing requirement for corticosteroids as therapy for CNS disease. 
c. No stereotactic radiation within 7 days or whole-brain radiation within 14 days prior 
to enrollment. 
d. No evidence of interim progression between the completion of CNS-directed 
therapy and the screening radiographic study. 
Patients with new asymptomatic CNS metastases detected at the screening scan must 
receive radiation therapy and/or surgery for CNS metastases. Following treatment, these 
patients may then be eligible without the need for an additional brain scan prior to inclusion, 
if all other criteria are met. 
7. Patients with high-intermediate Tumor Mutational Burden analyzed by Foundation Medicine 
(g10 mutations/ MB) performed by a Foundation Medicine laboratory on previously 
obtained archival tumor tissue or tissue obtained from a biopsy at pre-screening (sample 
must fulfil minimal sample requirements of 20% tumor cellularity and a minimum surface of 
25mm2). TMBg16 mutations/ MB is required if the analysis is performed in blood sample. 
8. Measurable disease, as defined by RECIST v1.1. 
Previously irradiated lesions can only be considered as measurable disease if disease 
progression has been unequivocally documented at that site since radiation and the 
previously irradiated lesion is not the only site of disease. 
9. Adequate hematologic and organ function defined by the following laboratory results 
obtained within 14 days prior to enrollment: 
• 
Neutrophils g 1500 cells/μL without granulocyte colony-stimulating factor support. 
• 
Lymphocyte count g 500/μL. 
• 
Platelet count g 100,000/μL without transfusion. 
• 
Haemoglobin g 9.0 g/dL. Patients may be transfused to meet this criterion. 
• 
INR or aPTT f 1.5 × upper limit of normal (ULN). This applies only to patients who are 
not receiving therapeutic anticoagulation; patients receiving therapeutic 
anticoagulation should be on a stable dose. 
• 
AST, ALT, and alkaline phosphatase f 2.5 × ULN, with the following exceptions: 
Pat