STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03117309
Section: PRO_ENDPOINTS
Features: pro_qol, consistency_bridging, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

edian survival of 
25.0 vs. 19.6 months (hazard ratio 0.73, p<0.002) and confirmed 
objective response rates of 21.5% vs 3.9%, respectively.  In 
addition, grade 3 toxicity was significantly less and quality of life 
Clinical Study Protocol 
HCRN GU16-260 
Version Date: 25MAR2021 
Confidential 
Page 4 of 71 
significantly improved in patients treated with nivolumab relative to 
those receiving everolimus. 
 
The OS benefit, history of durable responses and tolerability of 
nivolumab suggest that it be a preferred treatment for a subset of 
treatment naïve patients. However, currently there is very limited 
single agent data on the activity of nivolumab in treatment naïve 
patients with ccRCC. The BMS-sponsored study CA 209009 
included 23 subjects with treatment-naïve RCC. In these patients, 
treatment with nivolumab 10 mg/kg every 3 weeks resulted in an 
overall response rate of 13% (3/23).   
 
Further anti-PD1/PDL1 therapies have shown anti-tumor activity in 
patients with over 20 different types of malignancy; however only 
anecdotal reports exist for this treatment approach in patients with 
non-clear cell (ncc)RCC.    
 
Finally, the combination of nivolumab and the CTLA4 checkpoint 
inhibitor ipilimumab has produced greater antitumor activity than 
nivolumab alone in patients with advanced melanoma and 
encouraging response rates in patients with ccRCC.  It remains 
uncertain whether the addition of ipilimumab to nivolumab in 
patients who have failed to respond to nivolumab monotherapy 
could produce antitumor activity. To address all these concerns, we 
propose to conduct a study of nivolumab monotherapy in treatment 
naïve patients with advanced cc or nccRCC (Part A), with the 
addition of ipilimumab in patients with disease progression or who 
have failed to respond by 48 weeks into therapy (Part B) that will 
focus on uncovering biomarkers of response and resistance to PD-1 
blockade, as well as possible predictors of subsequent response to 
CTLA-4 blockade. 
 
In this trial, we examine the following questions: 
1) How active is PD-1 blockade in treatment naïve kidney cancer?  
2) What factors, in addition to PD-L1 expression, can reliably 
predict durable response?  
3) Do gene expression signatures which are likely capturing the 
presence, magnitude, and activity of adaptive immune infiltrates 
reliably predict durable response?  
4) Is there a threshold for PD-L1 expression in either the tumor or 
immune cell infiltrate that accurately predicts durable response?  
5) Is PD-L1 expression uniform and stable in an individual tumor 
and between a primary tumor and its metastases?  
6) What are the mechanisms of innate resistance to PD-1 pathway 
blockade?   
Clinical Study Protocol 
HCRN GU16-260 
Version Date: 25MAR2021 
Confidential 
Page 5 of 71 
7) Can the addition of ipilimumab overcome resistance and/or 
enhance response it patients with prolonged stable disease? 
8) Do gene expression analyses of biopsies in PD1 resistant tumors 
predict the response to ipilimumab/nivolumab combination 
therapy? 
OBJECTIVES 
Primary Objective: 
Determine the PFS rate at 1 year of nivolumab in patients with 
treatment naïve ccRCC based on tumor PD-L1 expression. 
 
Secondary Objectives: 
 Determine the PFS rate at 1 year- by both RECIST and 
irRECIST of nivolumab in patients with treatment naïve 
ccRCC based on the PD1- Blockade Durable Response 
Predictive (PRP) biomarker model developed in the 
DFHCC Kidney Cancer SPORE 
 Determine the objective response rate (CR/PR=ORR), the 
ORR based on PDL1 expression and the PRP model, and 
duration of response for nivolumab in patients with 
treatment naïve ccRCC 
 Determine the response rate of combined nivolumab and 
ipilimumab therapy at the time of nivolumab failure (or lack 
of response at 1 year) 
 Determine the clinical activity (CR, PR and SD) and PFS 
rate at 1 year of nivolumab in patients with treatment naive 
nccRCC 
 Assess the toxicity of nivolumab monotherapy in patients 
with treatment naïve cc or nccRCC 
 
Correlative Objectives: 
 Explore novel potential predictive biomarkers for patients 
with treatment naïve ccRCC and nccRCC 
 Explore the mechanisms of innate and acquired resistance to 
nivolumab therapy in treatment naïve patients with ccRCC 
 Identify biomarkers associated with response to nivolumab 
+ ipilimumab in patients whose disease has not responded 
or progressed on nivolumab monotherapy 
STUDY DESIGN 
The study will be a prospective Phase II trial of nivolumab in 134 
treatment naïve patients with clear cell (cc)RCC and 40 treatment 
naïve patients with non-clear cell (ncc)RCC. Eligible patients with 
tumor tissue available will receive nivolumab 240 mg flat dose IV 
q 2 weeks for 12 weeks then every 3 weeks at a dose of 360 mg IV 
for 12 weeks followed by nivolumab 480 mg IV every 4 weeks.  
Tumor response will be assessed at weeks 12, 18 and 24 and then 
every 12 weeks.  For patients who experience RECIST defined 
PD, but remain clinically asymptomatic with maintenance of 
performance status, a confirmatory scan after 4-6 weeks of 
Clinical Study Protocol 
HCRN GU16-260 
Version Date: 25MAR2021 
Confidential 
Page 6 of 71 
additional th