STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: UNKNOWN
Section: PRO_ENDPOINTS
Features: immunotherapy, non_proportional_hazards, fleming_harrington, methodology
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

hted KM-based tests are interesting alternative
methods for statistical inference that do not rely on the PH assumption. The RMST is an appealing
statistical measure to quantify treatment beneﬁt in a clinically meaningful and interpretable manner.
In this paper, we give an overview of these methods and present a simulation study to compare the
performance of the KM-based methods with the HR/log-rank test under various non-PH patterns.
Key Words: Immunotherapy, Efﬁcacy, Non-Proportional Hazard, Delayed Effect, Time-to-Event
1. Introduction
In many disease areas, a time-to-event (TTE) endpoint is used as the primary endpoint in
randomized clinical trials. The most common method for the analysis of TTE data is the
log-rank test and the Cox proportional-hazard (PH) model under the PH assumption, and
the hazard ratio (HR) derived from the Cox-model is used to quantify the relative effect
between treatment groups. Under the PH assumption, the log-rank test is the most power
test, and the HR can be interpreted approximately as a constant relative measure of risk over
time, for instance S1(t) = S0(t)HR, where S1(t) and S0(t) are the the survival function at
time t for two randomized treatment groups.
With the emergence of novel therapies such as targeted therapies and immunothera-
pies in cancer, the PH assumption often does not hold. Depending on the mechanism of
the drug, non-PH can demonstrate different patterns. For example, unlike chemotherapies
that attach tumor cells directly, immunotherapies target the immune system to elicit effec-
t on cancer cells. The indirect effect could lead to delayed effect as manifested by late
separation on the Kaplan-Meier (KM) curves. The delayed treatment effect can also be
maintained thanks to its durability on some patients resulting in ﬂat survival tails and long-
term beneﬁt. In contrast, a small molecule targeted therapy may manifest fast and dramatic
tumor regression early on, however, the effect may not last and could diminish over time,
with the survival curves demonstrating a diminishing or “belly-shape” pattern (Figure 1).
In both cases, the PH assumption is violated.
The log-rank test is still statistically valid under non-PH, but it may suffer signiﬁcant
power loss owing to its relationship with the score test in the Cox-PH model. The loss in
power increases the failure rate of clinical trials for promising novel therapies. Furthermore,
the HR is not interpretable under non-PH despite the fact that it can be approximated as the
weighted HR over time on the log-scale (Huang and Kuan, 2018).
In the literature, a number of methods have been proposed to tackle the non-PH issue,
such as, notably, weighted log-rank test (e.g. Fleming and Harrington, 1981), or a lin-
∗Pﬁzer Inc., 445 Eastern Point Rd, Groton, CT 06340
 
833
JSM 2018 - Section on Statistical Graphics
ear combination or the maximum of several test statistics (Tarone, 1981; Gastwirth, 1985;
Zucker and Lakatos, 1990; Self, 1991; Lee, 1996). The test proposed by Yang and Pren-
tice (2010) is a weighted logrank test whose weights are obtained by ﬁtting the data to a
proposed model.
Since we conventionally present the KM curves to show the temporal proﬁle of survival
data, it is natural to perform a test that directly compares two survival function, rather than
their hazard functions. Such interesting class of methods is the KM-based method that
measures the relative between-group difference by the difference or ratio between the KM
curves (Pepe and Fleming, 1989; Royston and Parmar, 2011; Uno et al., 2014), which
is different from the rank-based methods (such as the log-rank test or weighted log-rank
test) that essentially assess effect by (weighted) difference of hazard functions. Without
parametric extrapolation, the KM curves contain all the information of the survival data.
Therefore, the KM-based method is an appealing robust approach to summarize between-
group difference that does not rely on the PH assumption.
In this paper, we give an overview of three KM methods proposed in the literature and
discuss their beneﬁts and limitations. Section 2 describes the concepts of each method. In
Section 3, we conduct a simulation study to compare these methods under various non-PH
scenarios. Section 4 concludes with a discussion.
2. Kaplan-Meier Based Methods
2.1
Restricted Mean Survival Time (RMST)
The most widely used KM-based method is the restricted mean survival time (RMST),
which is a robust and clinically interpretable summary measure of the survival time dis-
tribution that does not rely on the PH assumption. Unlike the median survival time, it is
estimable even under heavy censoring. There has been considerable methodological re-
search (e.g., Zucker, 1998; Royston and Parmar, 2011; Royston and Parmar, 2013; Uno
et al., 2014) on the use of RMST to estimate treatment effects as an alternative to the HR
approach. The RMST methodology is applicable independent of the PH assumption, and
a test of the difference or ratio between the RMST for the experimental arm and the con-
trol arm may be more appropriate to determine superiority with respect to the time-to-event
endpoint. The RMST depends on the selection of cutoff (truncati