subgroup 
analysis, and the activity of the avelumab and liposomal doxorubicin combination was 
similar in both the PD-L1+ and PD-L1- cohorts; rather, the activity of liposomal 
doxorubicin was slightly decreased in the PD-L1- tumors.  In JAVELIN Ovarian 100, in 
newly diagnosed ovarian cancer, neither PD-L1 nor CD8 status appeared to be a 
predictive biomarker for activity of combined chemotherapy and avelumab (Ledermann 
2020). In this study, PD-L1 and TILs in archival tissue samples will be evaluated to 
correlate with responses to the treatment. 
 
2.5.2.  Homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) assessment 
 
Homologous recombination (HR) is a DNA damage repair pathway responsible for 
repairing double-strand DNA breaks.  Key proteins that are intrinsic to proper function of 
this pathway include BRCA1, BRCA2, and other members of the Fanconi anemia 
pathway.  Cells that are homologous recombination deficient (HRD) lack the ability to 
NRG-GY023 
- 16 -  
Version Date: July 25, 2023 
perform double-strand break repair via HR; as a consequence, they can be more sensitive 
to the effects of drugs such as PARP inhibitors and platinum. 
 
In the clinical setting, assessment of HRD status has been primarily performed by 
evaluation of patterns of “genomic scarring”, which occurs as cells lacking HR acquire 
specific patterns of mutations and structural aberrations of chromosomes.  Three separate 
types of genomic scarring patterns have been described to be associated with HRD:  loss 
of heterozygosity (LOH), large-scale state transitions (LST), and telomeric-allelic 
imbalance (TAI) (Abkevich 2012; Popova 2012; Birkbak 2012).  Various assays to assess 
these genomic instability patterns exist, including measurement of percent genomic LOH, 
which is utilized by the FoundationFocus CDx BRCA LOH test, and a composite score 
with measurement of LOH, LST, and TAI, which is utilized in the Myriad MyChoice 
CDx test. 
 
The presence of HRD has been associated with activity of PARP inhibitors in ovarian 
cancer.  The strongest association of PARP inhibitor activity has been with the presence 
of a BRCA1/2 mutation, as seen in both monotherapy studies of PARP inhibitors for 
treatment of relapsed disease (Gelmon 2011; Swisher 2017; Moore 2019), and trials of 
PARP inhibitor maintenance therapy (Ledermann 2014; Mirza 2016; Coleman 2017; 
Gonzalez-Martin 2019; Coleman 2019; Ray-Coquard 2019).  In non-mutated BRCA 
tumor populations within these trials, exploratory analyses have suggested that assays of 
HRD provide some additional information regarding the likelihood of deriving benefit 
from PARP inhibitor therapy, although these assays do not clearly differentiate 
populations that will or will not derive benefit (Mirza 2016; Coleman 2017; Gozalez-
Martin 2019; Ray-Coquard 2019), and in one study, no difference was seen with regards 
to PARP inhibitor activity in BRCA wild-type tumors that were deemed HRD on the 
Myriad MyChoice assay and those that did not (Coleman 2019, Swisher 2020).  In 
studies of combined olaparib and cediranib, higher RRs have been reported in those 
patients with platinum-resistant tumors where the LOH score was more elevated, 
although these are small studies and require further validation (Liu 2019; Lee 2020). 
Other mechanisms of HRD may be a functional biomarker for response. As such, it is 
important to identify which ovarian cancer patients have germline or somatic mutations 
in HRD genes and to examine their potential as predictive biomarkers. 
 
2.6 
Rationale for