stratification in the 
design. 
Treatment assignments will be masked to the participants and the personnel of the clinical sites, but not to an
unmasked statistician associated with the DCC. This unmasked statistician will only provide unmasking 
information (1) to the DSMB, (2) if required for participant safety, and (3) to the analytical team after databases 
have been locked. Unforeseen circumstances that may require unmasking will need to be approved by the 
Steering Committee. Staff in the blood banks will also be unmasked to treatment assignments
Treatments will be assigned at the baseline visit using an online program accessible to the clinical sites. After 
the entry of specified pre-randomization data, each enrolled participant’s ID will be irrevocably linked to the 
next unassigned treatment for that clinical site. Upon notification of a randomization, an unmasked email is 
sent to the blood bank informing of the participant identifier and the treatment group assignment.  Blood bank 
personnel will select an appropriate unit of plasma for transfusion and will mask (over-label) the unit consistent 
with local and federal regulations. The data system will also check for and prevent duplicate assignments 
(same participant randomized more than once). The treatment assignment tables in the data system will be 
encrypted to prevent inadvertent disclosures.
The procedures related to randomization of participants at the clinical sites will be as follows:
x
Clinical sites will collect randomization eligibility and baseline data on the appropriate data collection 
instruments and will enter these data into the database.
x
The data system will confirm randomization eligibility, issue the next assignment, and will relay 
treatment assignments to the DCC (masked) and blood bank (unmasked) as described above.
x
The data system will automatically store the date and time of assignment, the identity of the clinical site 
personnel making the assignment, the participant’s ID, and the treatment group assignment.
The data system will provide access to randomization materials, including a visit schedule and allowable time 
windows for visits.
Statistical Principles
General principles for analysis include the following:
x
The