covariates — age, body size, sex, 
organ impairment, drug-drug interaction — influence the PK of AL101.
For more details on instructions for collecting PK samples, refer to the Study Laboratory 
Manual.
8.4.3.
Other Biomarkers
Predictive biomarkers of response or resistance to the IP will be explored, such as but not limited 
to:

IHC: Tumor specimens will be stained for the NICD and potentially other 
biomarkers.

NGS: Mutational analysis will be performed in tumor tissue samples and potentially 
in blood (cfDNA, CTCs).
Biomarkers indicative of drug activity may be explored, such as but not limited to:

CTC enumeration.

Expression of pharmacodynamic biomarkers of Notch inhibition in tumor tissue 
and/or CTCs.
Samples may be stored according to local regulations following the last subject’s last visit for the 
study at a facility selected by the Sponsor to enable further analysis of biomarker responses to 
AL101.
8.4.4.
Sample Collection
Tumor tissue and blood will be collected at the times designated in the SoA (Section 1.3). 
Any biopsy should not exceed the risk associated with a simple excisional, incisional or core 
biopsy. Tumor tissue for biomarker analysis will be required for study participation at screening 
(block or 25 unstained slides). Tumor biopsies will also be taken at Cycle 4 Day 1 ±28 days. 
Screening biopsies may be fresh, or archival from within 2 years. On-treatment biopsies do not 
need to be done if either the site investigator or person performing the biopsy judges that no 
tumor is accessible for biopsy or that biopsy poses too great of a risk to the subject. (If the only 
tumor accessible for biopsy is also the only lesion that can be used for RECIST v1.1 response 
evaluation, then the subject may be exempt from biopsy after discussion with the Sponsor).
The Laboratory Manual will provide details on biomarker sample collection.
8.5.
Genetics
Germline genetics are not evaluated in this study.
8.6.
Unscheduled Visits
There may be a need to have a subject return to clinic for an unscheduled visit for a variety of 
reasons, including but not limited to repeat of a lab test, evaluation of an AE, or evaluation of 
&OLQLFDO6WXG\3URWRFROQR$/71%&
'RFXPHQW1XPEHU&/
'RFXPHQW9HUVLRQ
(IIHFWLYH'DWH$XJ
'RFXPHQW6WDWH(IIHFWLYH&RQWUROOHG
&21),'(17,$/
3DJHRI
disease status. Any procedure that is conducted during a regularly scheduled on-treatment visit 
may be performed at an unscheduled visit and will be recorded in the eCRF.
&OLQLFDO6WXG\3URWRFROQR$/71%&
'RFXPHQW1XPEHU&/
'RFXPHQW9HUVLRQ
(IIHFWLYH'DWH$XJ
'RFXPHQW6WDWH(IIHFWLYH&RQWUROOHG
&21),'(17,$/
3DJHRI
9.
STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS
9.1.
Statistical Hypothesis and