randomization scheme 
will be utilized so that equal numbers of participants receiving no sedation and PO sedation 
will be randomized to lavender aromatherapy or placebo. 1cc of dilute lavender 
aromatherapy and placebo will be pre-filled in a 5/8 dram mini amber glass bottle provided 
to the patient. Immediately prior to procedure start (defined as after receiving antibiotic and 
emptying bladder), participants will be instructed to self-administer the study product. They 
will bring down their personal cloth mask to chin level and rub the study product within the 
amber glass bottle on their upper lip and nose (left and right ala, alarfacial grooves, and 
columella). Participants will be instructed to take 4 deep breaths and then replace their 
mask over their nose. The patient will then proceed to the procedure.  
The participant, providers, and research team will be blinded to the treatment allocation. 
The level of training of the physician performing the procedure will be documented (e.g. 
resident, fellow, attending). If the physician is at any point concerned about participant 
health or safety, treatment allocation will be revealed in order to provide optimal 
management. If allocation is unmasked to the treatment team, this will be recorded.  
Immediately after procedure completion, a VAS documenting maximum procedural pain 
will be completed. Women will be monitored for a minimum of 15 minutes after procedure 
completion. Post-procedure temperature, pulse and blood pressure will be recorded, and 
participants will receive written and verbal discharge instructions. At this point, participants 
will receive and complete the ISAS as well as a post-procedure survey with questions 
related to their experience using scented oils during their abortion procedure.  
After completion of all study materials, if the patient prefers to remove the study product, 
they will be provided a wet gauze upon request.  
ii. Follow-up Procedure  
All study endpoints will be collected on the date of the procedure. Patients will not be 
followed up after procedure unless clinically indicated.  
iii. Description of products to be used  
Protocol Template 
Page 6 
CF-146, Effective 7/10/11 
 
Lavandula angustifolia (English Lavender): A 10% dilute Lavandula angustifolia 
essential oil blend will be used in this study. Lavandula angustifolia was chosen based on 
the idea that the oil can promote relaxation and treat anxiety, nausea and menstrual 
cramps. To create the dilute essential oil blend, 60 drops of Lavandula angustifolia will be 
added to one fluid ounce (2 tablespoons/30mL) of jojoba carrier oil.  
Jojoba Oil (100% organic golden expeller-pressed Simmondsia chinensis): Jojoba oil 
is the liquid produced in the seed of Simmondsia chinensis (jojoba) plant shrub. Jojoba is a 
clear golden liquid wax at room temperature with a faint nutty aroma. Jojoba was chosen 
as a carrier oil because of its stark similarities to the natural occurring sebum of humans 
based on its wax esters and fatty acids.  
The anticipated risks of the use of the jojoba oil and Lavandula essential oil are: skin 
irritation and undesired intensity or characteristic of the scent. 
    
E. Potential Scientific Problems:   
i. Criteria for Discontinuation  
In order to ensure and prioritize optimal medical care, if an unanticipated reaction or 
intolerance to the study product is encountered during the procedure, the patient or 
provider can request immediate withdrawal of their face mask where upon a clinical staff 
member will provide a wet gauze to wash the upper lip and nose (left and right ala, 
alarfacial grooves, and columella). If a reaction or intolerance is encountered, this will be 
recorded along with the timing (prior to start of procedure, during the procedure, or after 
the procedure but prior to submitting all study documents). 
 
F.   Data Analysis Plan:   
i. Data Management  
Data will be entered into RedCap on the date of the procedure by research staff at CWHC. 
Research staff will have completed institutional review board training in RedCap prior to 
initiation of the study. Study packets will be stored in a secure file cabinet located in the 
clinic. These cabinets will be kept locked at all times. The study consents will be kept in the 
same room in a separate locked cabinet with a different key. Only IRB-approved study 
team members will have access to RedCap and participant materials. The list that links the 
participant information to the study identification number will kept separately and will be 
destroyed after data analysis is complete.  
ii. Data Analysis  
Satisfaction will be assessed using the ISAS, a validated patient-experience centered 
measurement tool.
20-22 This survey was designed to specifically assess participant 
satisfaction with anesthetic care. The self-reported questionnaire consists of 11 question 
items such as “I hurt,” “I felt safe,” “I had nausea,” each assessed on a Likert-type scale 
ranging from “Disagree very much” to “Agree very much.” The responses are then scored 
from -3 to +3 and summed for a total possible score of -33 to +33 and then an average 
score can be obtained. This instrument has been validated in multiple studies, including 
prior abortion studies at this institution (Thaxton and Pitotti, manuscript in preparation). 
Protocol Template 
Page 7 
CF-146, Effective 7/10/11 
 
Maximum procedural pain will be assessed using an unmarked 100mm VAS scale, with 
anchors at 0mm (left) being “no pain” and 100mm (right) being “pain as bad as it could be.”  
We will perform descriptive analyses for the demographic data collected in this study. ISAS 
scores will be averaged and comparison of means will be performed. Maximum procedural 
pain scores on the VAS will be compared using a Student’s t-test. We will assess patient 
acceptability by evaluating the results from the survey portion of this study using 
descriptive statistics and 95% confidence intervals for acceptability based on the survey 
data.  
A