subgroup analysis is planned. 
2.3 
Patient disposition, demographics and other baseline 
characteristics 
2.3.1 
Patient disposition 
The overall number of participants who entered, completed, and discontinued the study will be 
summarized and listed, including the reasons for discontinuation. Duration on study is defined 
as: date of last known visit on study – date of first dose of treatment/ randomization visit, if no 
study treatment has been received.  
The duration on study will be summarized by treatment group. The screening disposition will 
be based on SCR. The FAS will be used for the summary and listing of patient disposition. The 
number of participants in the FAS will be summarized by treatment group. Number of 
participants with protocol deviations will be tabulated by category (e.g., selection criteria not 
met, subject not withdrawn as per protocol, treatment deviation, prohibited concomitant 
medication, other), deviation using FAS. Listing of participants with protocol deviation will be 
provided.  
The number of participants included in each analysis set will be tabulated using RAN. 
Participants exclusion from analysis sets will be summarized for all patients with reasons for 
exclusion (i.e. including both protocol and non-protocol deviations) and corresponding listing 
will be provided. 
2.3.2 
Demographics and other baseline characteristics 
Demographic and other baseline data including age, race, gender, baseline characteristics such 
as body height, 
 smoking history, Dietary advice status, Exercise status; baseline 
disease characteristics like LDL-C, baseline use of other lipid-lowering therapies (yes, no), 
statin intolerance history(yes, no), baseline diabetes status determined by the fasting glucose (≥ 
7.0 mmol/L) or random glucose (≥ 11.1 mmol/L) or HbA1C (≥ 6.5% or 48 mmol/mol) or 
medical history, baseline measurements 
 will be summarized descriptively by 
treatment group for FAS. Listings will also be provided. 
PPD
PPD
PPD
Novartis 
Confidential 
Page 14 of 37 
SAP 
 
Study No. CKJX839A1GB01 
 
 
 
Categorical data will be presented as frequencies and percentages by treatment group. For 
continuous data, non-missing observations, mean, standard deviation, median, 1st and 3rd 
quartile, minimum, and maximum will be presented. 
No inferential statistics will be provided for baseline comparability among the treatment groups. 
In addition, the following categorizations of continuous variables will be done: 
• 
Age groups < 65, ≥ 65 and < 75, ≥ 75  
• 
  
• 
LDL-C subcategories Category 1: ≤ 2.6 mmol/L, > 2.6 mmol/L; Category 2: ≤ 2.1 
mmol/L, > 2.1 - ≤ 2.6 mmol/L, > 2.6 - ≤ 3.3 mmol/L and > 3.3 mmol/L 
• 
  
2.3.3 
Medical History 
Relevant medical histories and current medical conditions at baseline will be summarised 
separately by system organ class and preferred term, by treatment group. Histories of statin 
intolerance will be summarised by treatment group. FAS will be used for the analysis. 
2.4 
Treatments (study treatment, rescue medication, concomitant 
therapies, compliance) 
All summaries of treatments will be performed on the Safety Set, unless otherwise specified. 
2.4.1 
Study treatment / compliance 
The number of study doses administered, duration of exposure, patient year of exposure will be 
summarized by treatment group. Listings will be provided.  
The number of participants dosed will also be summarized by study visit and treatment group.  
Duration of exposure for inclisiran arms will be calculated as: minimum of (Date of last dose 
of treatment – Date of first dose of treatment + 180, Date of last known visit – Date of first dose 
of treatment).  
Duration of exposure for lipid lowering therapies will be calculated as: minimum of (Date of 
last dose of lipid lowering therapy – Date of first dose of lipid lowering therapy, Date of last 
known visit – Date of first dose of lipid lowering therapy).  
Patient-year of exposure will be calculated as duration of exposure/365.25. 
2.4.2 
Prior, concomitant and post therapies 
Medications are collected through EMR and in this system medication end date is not available.   
Lipid-lowering therapy use at screening and baseline/randomization visit (Day 1) will be 
summarized by treatment group. Lipid-lowering therapy newly added or changed after 
randomization will be summarized by treatment group. 
PPD
PPD
Novartis 
Confidential 
Page 15 of 37 
SAP 
 
Study No. CKJX839A1GB01 
 
 
 
Other medications will be listed and summarized according to the anatomical therapeutic 
chemical (ATC) classification system and preferred term, by treatment group. 
2.5 
Analysis supporting primary objective(s) 
The primary objective of this study is to demonstrate superiority of inclisiran +/- behavioural 
support compared to standard of care + behavioural support in a primary care setting, in adults 
with elevated LDL-C. Standard of care + behavioural support will be considered as control 
group as mentioned in section 1.1.