STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00306293
Brief Title: VALTREX(Valacyclovir) Once Daily for Viral Shedding In Subjects Newly Diagnosed With HSV-2
Official Title: The Effect of Valacyclovir 1g Once Daily on HSV-2 Viral Shedding in Subjects Newly Diagnosed With Genital Herpes Infection
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2006-02-20
Completion Date: 2006-11-27

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE4
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: CROSSOVER
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 70

INTERVENTIONS
  1. valacyclovir (DRUG)
     Description: valacyclovir

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Mean Percent Days of Total Shedding (Clinical and Subclinical) as Determined by Type-specific Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) Assay for Herpes Simplex Virus Type 2 (HSV-2)
     Time Frame: Up to 60 days in each treatment period (Up to 148 days)
     Description: Each participant's study day were classified as either 'shedding' (positive HSV-2 result), 'no shedding' (negative HSV-2 result), or 'unknown' (swabbing not done or assay result not available) confirmed by PCR. If either the daily genital swab or a lesion swab are positive, the day was classified as 'shedding'. Study shedding day was classified as either 'clinical' (investigator-confirmed presence of genital lesions) or 'subclinical' (no genital lesions) by the investigator during recurrence visits. Percent of days with HSV-2 shedding was defined for each participant as the percent of days with PCR data for which HSV-2 shedding was detected by a positive PCR result, i.e., the number of days with HSV-2 PCR shedding divided by total number of days with PCR data, multiplied by 100. Sum of the percent clinical and nonclinical shedding days was reported as total shedding. Mean percent of days with HSV-2 shedding was reported for each treatment group.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Mean Percent Days Subclinical Shedding (no Genital Lesions Present)
     Time Frame: Up to 60 days in each treatment period (Up to 148 days)
  2. Mean Percent Days Clinical Shedding (Presence of Genital Lesions)
     Time Frame: Up to 60 days in each treatment period (Up to 148 days)
  3. Percentage of Participants With no Shedding
     Time Frame: Up to 60 days in each treatment period (Up to 148 days)
  4. Percentage of Participants With at Least One Genital Herpes Recurrence
     Time Frame: Up to 60 days in each treatment period (Up to 148 days)
  5. Median Time to First Genital Herpes Recurrence (Days)
     Time Frame: Up to Day 68

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Subject is in overall general good health.
* If female, subject must be of:

  1. Non-childbearing potential (i.e., physiologically incapable of becoming pregnant, including any female who is pre-menarchial or post-menopausal or surgically sterile); or
  2. Childbearing potential, but must have a negative pregnancy test at randomization, and must be compliant with one of the following: Complete abstinence from intercourse for two weeks before exposure to the study drug, throughout the clinical trial, and for a period of 1 week after study completion or premature discontinuation from the study (to account for elimination of the drug); Have a male partner who is confirmed to be sterile prior to the female subject's entry into the study and is the sole sexual partner for that female subject; Use of contraceptive(s) with a documented failure rate of less than 1% per year, including but not limited to: implants of levonorgestrel, use of injectable progestogen, oral contraceptives (either combined or progestogen only), an intrauterine device (IUD) or spermicide plus a mechanical barrier (condom/diaphragm).
* Subjects must be newly diagnosed with a first recognized episode of genital herpes as described in (a) or (b) below (See Appendix 3): a.HSV-2 seropositive at screen, with documented clinical signs and symptoms consistent with genital herpes at screen or within 4 months prior to randomization or b.HSV-2 seronegative at screen, AND HSV-2 culture positive or HSV-2 PCR positive with documented clinical signs and symptoms consistent with genital herpes at screen or within 4 months prior to randomization.
* Subject must be willing and able to provide written informed consent and comply with the protocol.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Subject is known or suspected to be immunocompromised (e.g., subjects receiving immunosuppressive therapy or chemotherapy for malignancy, or are seropositive for HIV).
* Subject received an investigational drug in the 30 days prior to the randomization visit.
* Subject is receiving systemic antiviral or immunomodulatory treatments.
* Subjects who have received systemic antiherpetic treatments (e.g., valacyclovir, acyclovir, ganciclovir, famciclovir) within 3 days of starting study drug, or immunomodulatory treatments in the 30 days before starting study drug.
* Subject has clinically significantly impaired renal function as defined by creatinine clearance less than 50ml/min (calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula).
* Subjects with a history or evidence of decompensated liver disease, or clinically significantly impaired hepatic function defined as an ALT (alanine transaminase) level \>3 times the normal upper limit.
* Subject is known to be hypersensitive to valacyclovir, acyclovir, ganciclovir or famciclovir.
* Subject has malabsorption or vomiting syndrome or other gastrointestinal dysfunction that may impair drug pharmacokinetics.
* Female subject who is contemplating pregnancy within the duration o

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
Eligible subjects will be randomized to receive VALTREX 1g or placebo once daily for 60 days in a two-way crossover study with a washout period of 7 days in between.