STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT02697058
Brief Title: Phase II of BAX2398/5-FU/Calcium Levofolinate in Pancreatic Cancer
Official Title: Phase II Randomized Study of BAX2398 in Combination With 5-Fluorouracil and Calcium Levofolinate in Japanese Patients With Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer, Which Progressed or Recurred After Prior Gemcitabine-Based Therapy
Sponsor: Servier

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2016-03-30
Completion Date: 2018-08-28

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE2
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: FACTORIAL
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 84

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Part 1: Safety and PK
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: BAX2398 in combination with 5-FU/calcium levofolinate
  Arm 2: Part 2: Safety, PK, Efficacy
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: BAX2398 in combination with 5-FU/calcium levofolinate
  Arm 3: Part 2: 5-FU/calcium levofolinate alone
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: 5-FU/calcium levofolinate

INTERVENTIONS
  1. BAX2398 + 5-FU/calcium levofolinate (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: BAX2398 (a liposomal formulation of irinotecan) in combination with 5-FU/calcium levofolinate
  2. 5-FU/calcium levofolinate (DRUG)
     Description: 5-FU/calcium levofolinate alone

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Progression Free Survival (PFS) in Part 2 of Study
     Time Frame: Part 2 Baseline to the end of the study (up to 22 months)
     Description: Progression Free Survival (PFS) was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression based on the independent central review board's assessment using RECIST 1.1 or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Progression Free Survival (PFS) in Part 1 of Study
     Time Frame: Part 1 Baseline to the end of the study (up to 22 months)
  2. Overall Survival (OS)
     Time Frame: Baseline to the end of the study (up to 22 months)
  3. Time to Treatment Failure (TTF)
     Time Frame: Baseline to the end of the study (up to 22 months)
  4. Objective Response Rate (ORR)
     Time Frame: Baseline to the end of the study (up to 22 months)
  5. Disease Control Rate (DCR)
     Time Frame: Baseline to the end of the study (up to 22 months)

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 20 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Participant is ≥20 years of age at the time of screening.
2. Histologically or cytologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of exocrine pancreas
3. Documented metastatic disease
4. Metastatic disease with at least one measurable lesion as defined by RECIST 1.1 guidelines
5. Documented disease progression after prior gemcitabine or any gemcitabine containing therapy but excluding irinotecan, for locally advanced or metastatic setting. Prior chemotherapy must be stopped for at least 21 days before the first dose.
6. Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) ≥70
7. Adequate bone marrow reserves
8. Adequate hepatic function
9. Adequate renal function
10. Normal ECG including Fridericia corrected QT interval (QTcF) \<440 ms within 7 days prior to first dose of study drug
11. Recovered from the effects of any prior surgery, radiotherapy or other anti-neoplastic therapy with no residual adverse events (AEs) of Grade ≥2.
12. Able to understand and sign an informed consent (or have a legal representative who is able to do so)
13. If female of childbearing potential, participant presents with a negative pregnancy, and agrees to employ adequate birth control measures during the study dosing period and for 3 months following the last dose of study drug.
14. Participant is willing and able to comply with the requirements of the protocol.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Active and uncontrolled central nervous system (CNS) metastases; for controlled CNS metastases, patient should have been off steroids for at least 28 days prior to starting study therapy.
2. History of any second malignancy in the last 5 years; participants with prior history of in-situ cancer or basal or squamous cell skin cancers are eligible. Participants with other malignancies are eligible if they have been continuously disease free for at least 5 years.
3. Severe arterial thromboembolic events (myocardial infarction, unstable angina pectoris, stroke) less than 6 months before inclusion.
4. Cannot stop medications that are potent CYP3A4 inducers within 2 weeks and inhibitors within 1 week before start of treatment.
5. Significant cardiac conduction abnormalities, including a history of long QTcF syndrome and/or pacemaker.
6. New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III or IV congestive heart failure, ventricular arrhythmias or uncontrolled blood pressure.
7. Active infection, including active hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), and HIV, or an unexplained fever \>38.5°C during screening visits or on the first scheduled day of dosing (at the discretion of the investigator, patients with tumor fever may be enrolled), which in the investigator's opinion might compromise the patient's participation in the trial or affect the study outcome.
8. Known hypersensitivity to any of the components of BAX2398, other liposomal products, fluoropyrimidines, or calcium levofolinate.
9. Any other medical or social condition deemed by the investigator to be likely to interfere with a patient'

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
Study Part 1: To assess the safety and tolerability, and to characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of BAX2398 in combination with 5-FU/calcium levofolinate in Japanese patients.

Study Part 2: To compare the efficacy of BAX2398 in combination with 5-FU/calcium levofolinate versus 5-FU/calcium levofolinate as assessed by Progression Free Survival (PFS) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1).