STUDY: Prosocial Behavior Can Safeguard Mental Health and Foster Emotional Well-being During the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Randomized Clinical Trial
NCT ID: NCT04517006
Sponsor: University of Toronto

Phase: NA
Design: FACTORIAL
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 1328

Arm: Track activities (NO_INTERVENTION)
Arm: Self-focused acts (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Prosocial acts (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: Self-focused acts
Intervention: Prosocial acts

PRIMARY: Change in happiness from baseline using the subjective happiness scale
  Time: baseline, end of weeks 1, 2, 3, and 5
  Desc: The Subjective Happiness Scale consists of four items: (1) "In general, I consider myself \_\_\_\_\_\_\_." Responses options run from 1 = "not a very happy person" to 7= "a very happy person." (2) "Compared to most of my peers, I consider myself \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_" with response options from 1 = "less happy" to 7 = "more happy." (3) "Some people are generally very happy. They enjoy life regardless o
PRIMARY: Change in valued life assessment from baseline using 4-item scale
  Time: baseline, end of weeks 1, 2, 3, and 5
  Desc: Respondents' individual perceptions of whether their life has value will be measured using the valued life subscale developed by Morgan and Farsides. This measure will consist of the average of the following four items: (1) "My life is worthwhile," (2) "My life is significant," (3) I really value my life," and (4) I hold my own life in high regard." In each instance, response options will run from
PRIMARY: Change in depression from baseline using the CESD (8-item)
  Time: baseline, end of weeks 1, 2, 3, and 5
  Desc: Depression will be measured using the well-established 8-item short-form of the Centre for Epidemiological Studies-Depression Scale (CES-D). Respondents will report how often in the past week they (1) felt depressed, (2) felt that everything was an effort, (3) felt that sleep was restless, (4) felt happy (reverse coded), (5) enjoyed life (reverse coded), (6) felt lonely, (7) felt sad, and (8) coul

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Canadian and American respondents from the Amazon Mechanical Turk

Exclusion Criteria:

Respondents will be excluded from the study if any of the following apply:

1. A respondent completes the baseline study unrealistically quickly. We measure response speed using the average number seconds spent on each survey item (seconds per item, or SPI). We judge a response to be unrealistically fast if its SPI value is less than 1. SPI calculations will exclude optional items.
2. A respondent does not complete at least half of the items in the baseline survey.
3. A respondent provides off-topic, non-sensical (e.g., random or gibberish words), or non-English responses to an open-ended question in the baseline survey. The open-ended question follows a dictator game (that is not part of the pre-registered portion of the study) and asks respondents what they hoped to accomplish by acting as they did during the dictator game. The specific nature of this question will make it straightforward to detect off-topic responses. A comment must be judged as off-topic, non-sensical, or non-English by two members of the research team to be excluded.
4. A respondent does not agree to continue with the study when asked if they wish to continue taking part in the study at the end of the baseline study, or in private correspondence with the researchers.
5. A respondent completes the baseline study using an IP address from outside Canada or the United States, or that appears to originate from a VPS or other suspicious source.
6. Technical difficulties prevent a respondent from completing the baseline study.

Because obtain sufficient power to detect effects is a central aim of this study, the investigators will replace respondents who are removed for reasons 1-5 in a rolling fashion. In the case of technical failure (#6), the first approach will be to resolve the issue and administer the baseline survey to the same participant. If this is not possible, a replacement will b

SUMMARY:
The COVID-19 pandemic and the accompanying lockdown measures have made mental health a pressing public health concern. Acts that focus on benefiting others-known as prosocial behaviors-offer one promising intervention that is both flexible and low cost. However, neither the range of emotional states prosocial acts impact nor the size of those effects is currently clear, both of which directly influence its attractiveness as a treatment option. Using a large online sample from Canada and the United States, the investigators will examine the effect of a three-week prosocial intervention on two indicators of emotional well-being (happiness and the belief that one's life is valuable) and mental health (anxiety and depression). Respondents will be randomly assigned to perform prosocial, self-focused, or neutral behaviors each week. Two weeks after the intervention, a final survey will assess whether the intervention has a lasting effect on mental health and emotional well-being. The results will illuminate whether prosocial interventions are a viable approach to addressing mental health needs during the current COVID-19 pandemic, as well for those who face emotional challenges during normal times.