STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00334152
Brief Title: Casopitant And ZOFRAN To Prevent Post Operative Nausea And Vomiting In Women
Official Title: A Phase III Multicenter, Randomized, Double-blind, Parallel Group Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of the 30 mg Intravenous Formulation of the Neurokinin-1 Receptor Antagonist GW679769 for Prevention of Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting in Female Subjects at High Risk for Emesis
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2006-03
Completion Date: 2006-07

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE3
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: PREVENTION
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 515

INTERVENTIONS
  1. casopitant (DRUG)
     Description: N/A

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of participants who achieved a complete response
     Time Frame: Up to 24 hours
     Description: Complete response defined as no vomiting or retching and no rescue therapy during the first 24 hours following placement of the last suture/staple. Vomiting defined as the forceful expulsion of gastrointestinal contents through the mouth or nose. Retching defined as the labored, spasmodic, rhythmic contraction of the respiratory and abdominal muscles in an attempt to vomit that is not productive of gastrointestinal contents (also known as "dry heaves"). Study participants who receive antiemetic rescue medication(s) during the initial 24 hours was considered treatment failures.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. The severity of nausea experienced by participants in each cohort during the 2, 6, 24 and 48 hour periods, as assessed by an 11-point, linear, numerical rating scale referred to as a "0-10 Likert scale"
     Time Frame: Up to 48 hours
  2. The severity of nausea experienced by participants in each cohort during the 2, 6, 24 and 48 hour periods, as assessed by a categorical scale (none, mild, moderate or severe), as defined in the protocol
     Time Frame: Up to 48 hours
  3. Number of participants with first emetic event
     Time Frame: Up to 48 hours
  4. Number of participants with first antiemetic rescue medication
     Time Frame: Up to 48 hours
  5. Participant satisfaction with the prophylactic antiemetic regimens, as assessed by participant satisfaction assessments in the participant diary
     Time Frame: Up to 48 hours

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: FEMALE
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion criteria:

* History of PONV (postoperative nausea and vomiting) and/or motion sickness.
* Have not smoked for the last 6 months.
* Having certain abdominal, breast, thyroid or shoulder surgery.

Exclusion criteria:

* Pregnant or breastfeeding.
* Have certain pre-existing medical conditions or take certain medications.

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
This study is being conducted to see if adding GW679769 (casopitant) to ZOFRAN will significantly decrease the number of patients who experience nausea and vomiting after surgery.