STUDY: A 6-month Safety and Benefit Study of Inhaled Fluticasone Propionate/ Salmeterol Combination Versus Inhaled Fluticasone Propionate in the Treatment of 6,200 Pediatric Subjects 4-11 Years Old With Persistent Asthma
NCT ID: NCT01462344
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE4
Design: PARALLEL
Masking: QUADRUPLE
Enrollment: 6250

Arm: ADVAIR 100/50mcg (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: ADVAIR 250/50mcg (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: FLOVENT 100mcg (ACTIVE_COMPARATOR)
Arm: FLOVENT 250mcg (ACTIVE_COMPARATOR)
Intervention: ADVAIR 100/50mcg
Intervention: ADVAIR 250/50mcg
Intervention: FLOVENT 100mcg
Intervention: FLOVENT 250mcg

PRIMARY: Number of Participants Experiencing an Event in the Composite Safety Endpoint of Serious Asthma Outcomes ( Asthma-related Hospitalization, Asthma-related Endotracheal Intubation, or Asthma-related Death)
  Time: From Day 1 up to 6 months
  Desc: Composite endpoint was defined as clinically relevant endpoint that is constructed from combinations of other clinically relevant endpoints of serious asthma outcomes (i.e., asthma-related hospitalization, asthma-related endotracheal intubation, or asthma-related death). Hospitalization was defined as an inpatient stay or a \>=24-hour stay in an observation area in an emergency department or other
PRIMARY: Number of Participants With at Least One Asthma Exacerbation Over the 6-month Study Treatment Period
  Time: From Day 1 up to 6 months
  Desc: Number of participants with asthma exacerbation over the 6-month study treatment period are presented. Participants from mITT population with screening childhood asthma control test (C-ACT) scores of 20 or higher, one exacerbation in the previous year, and either low-dose inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) + one or more adjunctive therapy or medium-dose ICS monotherapy or medium-dose ICS and one or more

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Consent to participate in the study
2. Age 4-11 years old
3. Male or eligible female - Female subjects should not be enrolled if they are pregnant, lactating or plan to become pregnant during the time of study participation
4. Asthma diagnosis for at least 6 months
5. Ability to answer questions regarding asthma control and use a metered dose inhaler and DISKUS
6. A history of clinical varicella infection or recipient of a varicella vaccine in countries where the product label includes a warning regarding more serious chickenpox infections in patients using corticosteroids.
7. History of at least once occurrence of asthma exacerbation within the prior 12 months
8. Currently being treated for asthma and no change in asthma therapy for the last 4 weeks (Eligible subjects include: subjects with use of short-acting beta-agonist, leukotriene receptor antagonist, theophylline, or cromolyn whose asthma is not well-controlled; subjects on low-dose ICS monotherapy whose asthma is not well-controlled; subjects on low-dose ICS and one or more adjunctive therapy whose asthma is either controlled or not well-controlled asthma; subjects on medium-dose ICS monotherapy whose asthma is either controlled or not well-controlled; and subjects on medium-dose ICS and one or more adjunctive therapy whose asthma is well-controlled)

Exclusion Criteria:

1. History of life-threatening asthma
2. Unstable asthma
3. Current use of high-dose ICS or ICS/LABA therapy to treat asthma symptoms
4. Concurrent respiratory disease: Current evidence of pneumonia, pneumothorax, atelectasis, pulmonary fibrotic disease, allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, cystic fibrosis, bronchopulmonary dysplasia, or other severe respiratory abnormalities other than asthma.
5. Respiratory infection
6. Subjects with only exercise-induced asthma
7. An asthma exacerbation within the last 4 weeks or more than 4 separate exacerbations in the last 12 months
8. Hospitalization for asthma within 4 we

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to assess whether the risk of serious asthma-related events (asthma-related hospitalizations, endotracheal intubations, and deaths) in children 4-11 years old taking inhaled fluticasone propionate/salmeterol combination is the same as those taking inhaled fluticasone propionate alone.