STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00268203
Brief Title: Expanded Access Study Of BEXXAR® For Low Grade And Transformed Low-Grade Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
Official Title: Expanded Access Study of Iodine I 131 Tositumomab for Relapsed/Refractory Low-Grade and Transformed Low-Grade Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 1998-09
Completion Date: 2013-02

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE2
Allocation: N/A
Intervention Model: N/A
Primary Purpose: N/A
Masking: N/A
Enrollment: 765

INTERVENTIONS
  1. Iodine I 131 Tositumomab Therapeutic Regimen (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: Patients will receive unlabeled Tositumomab (450 mg) followed by Tositumomab (35 mg) which has been trace-labeled with 5 mCi of Iodine-131 (dosimetric dose). Whole body counts using a gamma camera will be obtained 3 times between Days 0 and 7 following the dosimetric dose to determine a patient-specific mCi dose of Iodine-131 calculated to deliver the desired total body dose of radiation (either 65 cGy or 75 cGy). The therapeutic dose is administered 7-14 days after the dosimetric dose. Patients will receive unlabeled Tositumomab (450 mg) followed by Tositumomab (35 mg) labeled with the patient-specific dose of Iodine-131 (median dose in previous studies was approximately 85 mCi). Patients who are obese will be dosed based upon 137% of their calculated lean body mass. Patients will be treated with thyroid blocking medication at least 24 hours prior to the dosimetric dose and continuing for 14 days following the therapeutic dose.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of Participants With Unconfirmed Response (Complete Response or Partial Response) and Unconfirmed Complete Response
     Time Frame: From randomization until the first documented complete response or partial response (up to 161 months)
     Description: A participant was defined as a responder if he/she sustained a complete response (CR: the disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and all disease-related symptoms) or partial response (PR: greater than or equal to a 50% decrease in the sum of the product of perpendicular diameter \[SPPD\] determined at Baseline; no increase in the size of the other nodes, liver, or spleen; no new sites of disease). Response was evaluated by an investigator per guidelines developed by The International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma.
  2. Number of Participants With Confirmed Response (Complete Response or Partial Response) and Confirmed Complete Response
     Time Frame: From randomization until the first documented complete response or partial response (up to 161 months)
     Description: A participant was defined as a responder if he/she sustained a complete response (CR: the disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and all disease-related symptoms) or partial response (PR: greater than or equal to a 50% decrease in the sum of the product of perpendicular diameter \[SPPD\] determined at Baseline; no increase in the size of the other nodes, liver, or spleen; no new sites of disease). Response was evaluated by an investigator per guidelines developed by The International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma. A confirmed response (CR and PR) requires that the response be confirmed by another response (same or better) at least 4 weeks apart.
  3. Duration of Response for Participants With Unconfirmed Response (CR+PR)
     Time Frame: From the time of the first documented response (CR or PR) until disease progression (up to 161 months)
     Description: Duration of response is defined as the time from the first documented CR (the disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and all disease-related symptoms) or PR (greater than or equal to a 50% decrease in the SPPD determined at Baseline; no increase in the size of the other nodes, liver, or spleen; no new sites of disease) until disease progression (PD). PD is defined as greater than or equal to a 50% increase from nadir in the SPPD for all measurable disease. Lesion changes believed to represent measurement variation associated with radiographic technique should not be classified as PD. Response was evaluated by an investigator per guidelines developed by the International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma.
  4. Duration of Response for Participants With Confirmed Response (CR+PR)
     Time Frame: From the time of the first documented response (CR or PR) until disease progression (up to 161 months)
     Description: Duration of response is defined as the time from the first documented CR (the disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and all disease-related symptoms) or PR (greater than or equal to a 50% decrease in the SPPD determined at Baseline; no increase in the size of the other nodes, liver, or spleen; no new sites of disease) until disease progression (PD). PD is defined as greater than or equal to a 50% increase from nadir in the SPPD for all measurable disease. Lesion changes believed to represent measurement variation associated with radiographic technique should not be classified as PD. Response was evaluated by an investigator per guidelines developed by the International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma. A confirmed response (CR and PR) requires that the response be confirmed by another response (same or better) at least 4 weeks apart.
  5. Duration of Response (DOR) in Unconfirmed Complete Responders
     Time Frame: From the time of the first documented unconfirmed CR until PD (up to 161 months)
     Description: DOR is defined as the time from the first documented response to the first documented disease progression. Unconfirmed CR is defined as the disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and all disease-related symptoms. Response was evaluated by an investigator per guidelines developed by The International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma.
  6. Duration of Response (DOR) in Confirmed Complete Responders
     Time Frame: From the time of the first documented CR until PD (up to 161 months)
     Description: DOR is defined as the time from the first documented response to the first documented disease progression. CR is defined as the disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and all disease-related symptoms. A confirmed response (CR and PR) requires that the response be confirmed by another response (same or better) at least 4 weeks apart.
  7. Time to Progression or Death
     Time Frame: From the treatment start date to the first documented incidence of disease progression (PD) or death (up to 161 months)
     Description: Time to progression is defined as the time from the treatment start date to the first documented incidence of disease progression (PD) or death. PD is defined as greater than or equal to a 50% increase from nadir in the SPPD for all measurable disease. Lesion changes believed to represent measurement variation associated with radiographic technique should not be classified as PD.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Time to Treatment Failure
     Time Frame: From the dosimetric dose to the first occurrence of the following: treatment withdrawal, decision to seek additional therapy, study removal, disease progression, receipt of alternative therapy, or death (up to 161 months)

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Histologically confirmed diagnosis of low- grade NHL or transformed low-grade NHL (tumor must be CD 20 positive).
* Prior treatment with at least one chemotherapy regimen and have relapsed or progressed, or failed to achieve an objective response on last chemotherapy regimen.
* Karnofsky performance status of at least 60% and anticipated survival of at least 3 months.
* Absolute granulocyte of \>/= 1,500/mm3.
* Platelet count of \>/= 100,000/mm3, and not require sustained support of hematopoietic cytokines, or transfusion of blood products.
* Adequate renal function (i.e., \<1.5x Upper Limit of Normal), and hepatic transaminases (AST \<5 times ULN).
* Signed IRB/IEC-approved informed consent.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Patients with a mean of \>25% of the intratrabecular marrow space involved with lymphoma.
* Patients who received cytotoxic chemotherapy, radiation therapy, immunotherapy, or cytokine treatment within 4 weeks prior to study entry (6 weeks for nitrosurea compounds) or who exhibit persistent clinical evidence of toxicity.
* Patients who have undergone stem cell or bone marrow transplant, active obstructive hydronephrosis, active infection, New York Heart Association Class III or IV heart disease or other serious illness that would preclude evaluation.
* Known HIV infection.
* Pregnant or nursing patients.
* Patients with prior malignancy other than lymphoma, except for adequately-treated skin cancer, in-situ cervical cancer, or cancer for which the patient has been disease-free for 5 years.
* Patients with progressive disease within 1 year of irradiation arising in a field that has been previously irradiated with more than 3500 cGy.
* Patients who received prior radioimmunotherapy, known brain or leptomeningeal metastases, HAMA positivity.
* Patients who are receiving either approved or non-approved (through another protocol) anti-cancer drugs or biologics.

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
This is a single arm, multi-center, expanded access study of Iodine I 131 Tositumomab (BEXXAR) therapeutic regimen for patients with relapsed or refractory low-grade or transformed low-grade non-Hodgkin's B-cell lymphoma. The primary objective is to make Iodine I 131 Tositumomab more broadly available to patients. Secondary endpoints will be to obtain additional safety and efficacy information for this treatment regimen. Post study drug administration follow-ups will continue for up to ten years. These will include blood-work and adverse event assessments for 13 weeks post dosing, patient response evaluations at Week 13, Months 6, 12, 18, 24, and Long-Term Follow-ups every 6 months until the elapse of 5 years from the dosimetric dose and then annually thereafter through year 10. Thyroid function will be monitored annually during Long-term follow-up.