STUDY: Phase I, Open Label, Non-randomised, Non-comparative, Multi-center Study, Evaluating S65487, a Bcl-2 Inhibitor Intravenously Administered, in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Non Hodgkin Lymphoma, Multiple Myeloma or Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
NCT ID: NCT03755154
Sponsor: Servier

Phase: PHASE1
Design: PARALLEL
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 60

Arm: S65487 - initial scheme (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: S65487 - alternative scheme (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: S65487- initial scheme
Intervention: S65487 - alternative scheme

PRIMARY: Incidence of Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT)
  Time: until the end of the first cycle (each cycle is 21days)
  Desc: Safety criterion
PRIMARY: Incidence and severity of Adverse Events
  Time: through study completion an average of 6 months
  Desc: Safety and tolerability criteria
PRIMARY: Incidence and severity of Serious Adverse Events
  Time: through study completion an average of 6 months
  Desc: Safety and tolerability criteria

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Patients with cytologically confirmed and documented de novo, secondary or therapy-related AML, excluding acute promyelocytic leukaemia with relapsed or refractory disease without established alternative therapy. Or patients with measurable confirmed Multiple Myeloma (IMWG) with relapsed or refractory disease who have previously received at least three lines of treatment and without established alternative therapy. Or patients with histologically and measurable confirmed Non Hodgkin Lymphoma defined as Diffuse Large B cell Lymphoma (DLBCL), Follicular Lymphoma (FL), Mantle Cell Lymphoma (MCL), Marginal Zone Lymphoma (MZL), High-Grade B cell Lymphoma with relapsed or refractory disease who have received at least two lines of therapy (including rituximab) and without established alternative therapy. Or patients with Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) who have relapsed or are refractory (except treatment failure), as defined per iwCLL, from venetoclax treatment and without established alternative therapy.
* ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) performance status ≤ 2.
* For NHL, MM patients and CLL patients: haematological function (independent of any growth factor support) based on the last assessment performed before inclusion, defined as: absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 1 x 109/L, haemoglobin ≥ 8 g/dL, platelet count ≥ 50 x 109/L for NHL and MM patients, platelet count ≥ 30 x 109/L for CLL patients.
* For AML patients: circulating Blood White Cell count (WBC count) \< 25 x 109/L (with or without use of hydroxycarbamide/leukapheresis) based on the last assessment performed before inclusion.
* Adequate renal function based on the last assessment performed before inclusion, assessed as Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) using Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) Formula.
* Adequate hepatic function based on the last assessment performed before inclusion.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Pregnancy, breastfeeding or possibility of becoming pregn

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this first in human study is to assess safety, tolerability, Pharmacokinetic (PK) and preliminary clinical activity and to estimate the Maximum Tolerated Doses (MTD(s))/ Recommended Phase 2 Doses (RP2D(s)) of S65487 as single agent administered intravenously (i.v.) in adult patients with refractory or relapsed Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (NHL), Multiple Myeloma (MM) or Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL).