STUDY: A Randomized, Blinded, Double-dummy, Parallel-group Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Umeclidinium (UMEC) 62.5 mcg Compared With Tiotropium 18 mcg in Subjects With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)
NCT ID: NCT02207829
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE3
Design: PARALLEL
Masking: TRIPLE
Enrollment: 1017

Arm: Umeclidinium 62.5 mcg + placebo (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Tiotropium 18mcg + placebo (ACTIVE_COMPARATOR)
Intervention: Umeclidinium
Intervention: Umeclidinium matching placebo
Intervention: Tiotropium
Intervention: Tiotropium matching placebo

PRIMARY: Change From Baseline in Trough Forced Expiratory Volume in One Second (FEV1) on Day 85
  Time: Baseline (BL) and Day 85
  Desc: FEV1 is a measure of lung function and is defined as the maximal amount of air that can be forcefully exhaled in one second. Trough FEV1 on Day 85 is defined as the mean of the FEV1 values obtained 23 and 24 hours after dosing on Day 84 (Week 12). Trough FEV1 measurements were taken electronically by spirometry on Days 2, 28, 56, 84 and 85. Baseline trough FEV1 is the mean of the two assessments m

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Type of subject: outpatient.
* Informed Consent: A signed and dated written informed consent prior to study participation.
* Age: Subjects 40 years of age or older at Visit 1.
* Gender: Male and female subjects are eligible to participate in the study. A female is eligible to enter and participate in the study if she is of:

Non-child bearing potential (i.e., physiologically incapable of becoming pregnant, including any female who is post-menopausal or surgically sterile). Surgically sterile females are defined as those with a documented hysterectomy and/or bilateral oophorectomy or tubal ligation. Post-menopausal females are defined as being amenorrhoeic for greater than 1 year with an appropriate clinical profile, e.g., age appropriate, \> 45 years, in the absence of hormone replacement therapy. OR Child bearing potential, has a negative pregnancy test at screening, and agrees to one of the acceptable contraceptive methods used consistently and correctly (i.e., in accordance with the approved product label and the instructions of the physician for the duration of the study - screening to follow-up contact). - Diagnosis: An established clinical history of COPD in accordance with the definition by the American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society

* Smoking History: Current or former cigarette smokers with a history of cigarette smoking of \>=10 pack-years \[number of pack years = (number of cigarettes per day / 20) x number of years smoked (e.g. 20 cigarettes per day for 10 years, or 10 cigarettes per day for 20 years both equal 10 pack-years)\]. Former smokers are defined as those who have stopped smoking for at least 6 months prior to Visit 1. Pipe and/or cigar use cannot be used to calculate pack-year history.
* Severity of Disease: A pre and post-albuterol/salbutamol FEV1/ Forced Vital Capacity (FVC) ratio of \<0.70 and a post-albuterol/salbutamol FEV1 of \>=30% and \<=70% of predicted normal values at Visit 1. Predicted values w

SUMMARY:
This is a multicentre, randomized, blinded, double dummy, parallel group study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of UMEC inhalation powder\[ (62.5 microgram (mcg) once daily (QD)\] when administered via a novel Dry Powder Inhaler compared with tiotropium (18 mcg QD) administered via a HANDIHALER® inhaler over a treatment period of 12 weeks (24 weeks in Germany) in subjects with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). At the end of the run-in period, subjects who meet the randomization criteria will be randomized to receive UMEC 62.5 mcg administered via novel dry powder inhaler(nDPI) + Placebo administered via HANDIHALER inhaler OR Tiotropium 18 mcg administered via HANDIHALER inhaler + Placebo administered via nDPI in a 1:1 ratio. There will be up to 8 clinic visits conducted on an outpatient basis at Pre-Screening (Visit 0), Screening (Visit 1), a 7 to 14 day run-in period, randomization at Day 1 (Visit 2), and after randomization at Day 2 (Visit 3), Day 28 (Visit 4), Day 56 (Visit 5), Day 84 (Visit 6) and Day 85 (Visit 7). For subjects enrolled in Germany, there will be an additional 3 visits at Day 112 (Visit 8), Day 140 (Visit 9) and Day 168 (Visit 10). The total duration of subject participation in the study will be approximately 15 weeks (27 weeks in Germany). The primary endpoint of the study is clinic visit trough forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) on treatment Day 85. All subjects will have spirometry performed at clinic Visits 1 though 7. Trough spirometry will be obtained 23 and 24 hours after the previous day's dose of blinded study medication at Visits 3 to 7.

HANDIHALER is a registered trademark of Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH \& Co. KG.