STUDY: Efficacy and Safety of Atorvastatin + Perindopril Fixed-Dose Combination S05167 in Adult Patients With Arterial Hypertension and Dyslipidemia, 8 Weeks, Phase 3, Randomized, Double-blind, Active-control, Multinational, Multi-center, Parallel Study
NCT ID: NCT04591808
Sponsor: Servier

Phase: PHASE3
Design: PARALLEL
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 146

Arm: S05167 (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Lipitor® (ACTIVE_COMPARATOR)
Arm: Coversyl® (ACTIVE_COMPARATOR)
Intervention: Atorvastatin/Perindopril
Intervention: Atorvastatin
Intervention: Perindopril

PRIMARY: Systolic blood pressure (SBP)
  Time: Over 8 weeks
  Desc: Mean change from baseline in sitting systolic blood pressure (SBP) in the S05167 group as compared with the Lipitor group (in terms of superiority)
PRIMARY: Low-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol (LDLc)
  Time: Over 8 weeks
  Desc: Percent of change from baseline in Low-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol (LDLc) in the S05167 group as compared with the Coversyl group (in terms of superiority)

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Men or women from 18 to 79 years old who can comply with the study requirements and timetable,
2. Patients diagnosed with Essential hypertension (as documented in patient's medical file). The diagnosis of hypertension should be based on at least two BP measurements on at least two visits.

   Uncontrolled hypertensive patients currently under monotherapy treatment within at least 4 weeks (except patients treated by perindopril) for combined systolic and diastolic hypertension (140 mmHg ≤ SBP \< 160 mmHg and 90 mmHg ≤ DBP \< 100 mmHg).

   or Hypertensive patients naïve of treatment with 150 mmHg ≤ SBP \<160 mmHg and 90 mmHg ≤ DBP \< 100 mmHg.
3. Dysplipidemic patients: naïve of treatment or uncontrolled with statin at lowest dose within at least 4 weeks with 110 mg/ Decilitre (dL) (or 2.84 millimole \[mmol\] /L) ≤ LDL-c \< 190 mg/dL (or 4.91 mmol/L) according to a previous laboratory result within 12 months.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Unlikely to cooperate in the study,
2. Pregnant and lactating women,

4\. Participation in another study at the same time or having participated in another study within 3 months before selection participation in noninterventional registries or epidemiological studies is allowed,

6.Patients treated with \>1 anti-hypertensive drug or \>1 Lipid lowering drug,

7.Patients previously treated with atorvastatin and/or perindopril,

8.Known resistance to ACE inhibitors,

9.Patients treated with beta-blockers or alpha-blockers,

10\. Patients with liver disease or renal impairment,

11.Certain known cardiovascular diseases or cardiac rhythm disorders,

12.Known or suspected symptomatic orthostatic hypotension,

13.Familial hypercholesterolemia,

14.Secondary hypertension or dyslipidemia,

15.Patients who are hypersensitive to atorvastatin, perindopril or to any of the excipients of study drugs,

16.Hypersensitivity to any other ACE inhibitor,

17.History of angioedema associated with previous ACE inhibitor therapy.

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to demonstrate the superiority of atorvastatin/perindopril fixed dose combination (FDC) S05167 as compared to atorvastatin reference drug alone or perindopril drug alone on systolic blood pressure decrease and LDL cholesterol decrease respectively in patients presenting with hypertension and dyslipidemia after 8 weeks of treatment.