STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00733577
Brief Title: A Study to Test How SB756050 Affects Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus After 6 Days of Dosing.
Official Title: A Single-blinded Randomized, Placebo-controlled, Staggered-parallel, Escalating-dose Study to Investigate the Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Oral SB756050 Administered for 6 Days to Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE1
Enrollment: 48

Arm 1: Cohort 1 - EXPERIMENTAL
Arm 2: Cohort 2 - EXPERIMENTAL
Arm 3: Cohort 3 - EXPERIMENTAL
Arm 4: Cohort 4 - EXPERIMENTAL

Primary 1: Safety measures including: AEs daily; laboratory testing: day -1,2,5,7 and follow up; ECG: day -1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and follow-up; vital signs: daily; PK parameters day -1,5, and 6.
  Time: 6 days of dosing

ELIGIBILITY
Inclusion Criteria:

* Male or female subjects, 18 - 60 years of age, inclusive, at the time of signing the informed consent
* A female subject is eligible to participate if she is of non-childbearing potential, defined as pre-menopausal females with a documented tubal ligation or hysterectomy; or postmenopausal defined as 12 months of spontaneous amenorrhea. FSH and estradiol levels will be checked at Screening for postmenopausal women. Simultaneous follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) \> 40 MlU/ml and estradiol \< 40 pg/ml (\<140 pmol/L) is confirmatory.
* Except as noted elsewhere, subjects should have no significant known medical conditions other than T2DM, as determined by a responsible physician, based on a medical evaluation including medical history, physical examination, laboratory tests and ECGs. A subject with a clinical abnormality or laboratory parameters that meets exclusion criteria but is outside the reference range for the population being studied may be included only if the Investigator and the GSK Medical Monitor agree that the finding is unlikely to introduce additional risk factors and will not interfere with the study procedures.
* BMI (body mass index) within the range 25-35 kg/m2, inclusive.
* T2DM diagnosed at least 3 months prior to Screening
* Subjects must be treating their T2DM using one of the following regimens: Diet and exercise therapy, Metformin as monotherapy, Sulfonylurea as monotherapy, Metformin and sulfonylurea in combination, DPP-IV inhibitors, either as monotherapy or in combination with other agent(s) on this list at half maximal dose or less, Exenatide, either as monotherapy or in combination with other agent(s) on this list All doses of anti-diabetic medication must have been stable for at least 3 months prior to Screening, and the subject must be willing to wash out from their antidiabetic medications from Day -7 through Day 7.
* Capable of giving written informed consent, which includes compliance with the requirements and

SUMMARY
This is an escalating dose study in subjects with T2DM, which will consist of four overlapping cohorts receiving 6 days of SB756050 to assess safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics.