STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT01777282
Brief Title: A Study to Determine the Long Term Safety and Efficacy of Albiglutide in Combination With Oral Monotherapy Antihyperglycemic Medications in Japanese Patients With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Official Title: A 52-Week, Open-Label, Multicenter Study to Determine the Long Term Safety and Efficacy of Albiglutide in Combination With Monotherapy of Oral Antihyperglycemic Medications in Japanese Patients With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2013-02-23
Completion Date: 2015-01-27

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE3
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 374

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Albiglutide + Sulfonylurea
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: Albiglutide in combination with background sulfonylurea
  Arm 2: Albiglutide + Biguanide
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: Albiglutide in combination with background biguanide
  Arm 3: Albiglutide + Glinide
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: Albiglutide in combination with background glinide
  Arm 4: Albiglutide + Thiazolidinedione
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: Albiglutide in combination with background thiazolidinedione
  Arm 5: Albiglutide + Alpha-glucosidase inhibitor
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: Albiglutide in combination with background alpha-glucosidase inhibitor

INTERVENTIONS
  1. Albiglutide (DRUG)
     Description: Albiglutide is a fixed-dose, fully disposable pen injector system for delivery of albiglutide from a prefilled dual chamber glass cartridge that is an integral part of the pen. It is intended for single use by the subject. It is designed for manual reconstitution of the dose, priming, and insertion of the pen needle, and manual injection by the subject. The subject will inject albiglutide 30 mg weekly for 52 weeks (with optional uptitration to 50 mg weekly) subcutaneously into the abdomen, alternating between left and right sides. The pen is designed to work with standard pen needles.
  2. Sulfonylurea (DRUG)
     Description: Single oral antidiabetic drug as a background therapy, to be continued as previously prescribed.
  3. Biguanide (DRUG)
     Description: Single oral antidiabetic drug as a background therapy, to be continued as previously prescribed.
  4. Glinide (DRUG)
     Description: Single oral antidiabetic drug as a background therapy, to be continued as previously prescribed.
  5. Thiazolidinedione (DRUG)
     Description: Single oral antidiabetic drug as a background therapy, to be continued as previously prescribed.
  6. Alpha-glucosidase inhibitor (DRUG)
     Description: Single oral antidiabetic drug as a background therapy, to be continued as previously prescribed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event (AE) or Any Serious Adverse Event (SAE)
     Time Frame: From Baseline through Week 52
     Description: An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product. An SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose, results in death, is life threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, may jeopardize the participant or may require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the other outcomes listed in this definition, or is an event of possible drug-induced liver injury. Refer to the general AE/SAE module for a list of non-serious AEs and SAEs. Non-serious hypoglycemia events are not included.
  2. Number of Participants With Any Hypoglycemic Event
     Time Frame: From Baseline through Week 52
     Description: Hypoglycemia events are defined with respect to low plasma glucose level, mostly accompanied by typical symptoms and/or assistance needed from third party with glucose administration. These events were reported by the investigators upon verification of the plasma glucose levels, symptoms and assistance recorded by the participants, and/or plasma glucose values obtained from laboratory evaluations.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Change From Baseline in Glycosylated Hemoglobin (HbA1c) at Week 52
     Time Frame: Baseline and Week 52
  2. Percentage of Participants Achieving Clinically Meaningful Levels of HbA1c (i.e., the Percentage of Participants Achieving Treatment Goal of <6.5% and <7.0% at Week 52)
     Time Frame: Week 52
  3. Change From Baseline in Fasting Plasma Glucose (FPG) at Week 52
     Time Frame: Baseline and Week 52
  4. Change From Baseline in Body Weight at Week 52
     Time Frame: Baseline and Week 52
  5. Time to Study Withdrawal Due to Hyperglycemia
     Time Frame: Week 52

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 20 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Subjects with diagnosis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus, who are experiencing inadequate glycemic control and receiving treatment with a stable dose of a single oral antidiabetic medication
* Body mass index (BMI) 17 to 40 kg/ m2 inclusive
* Subjects with an HbA1c between 7.0% and 10.0% at Screening
* Creatinine clearance \>30 mL/min (calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula)

Exclusion Criteria:

* History of type 1 diabetes mellitus
* Female subject is pregnant, lactating, or \<6 weeks postpartum
* Clinically significant cardiovascular and/or cerebrovascular disease
* Current ongoing symptomatic biliary disease, clinical signs or symptoms of pancreatitis, or a history of chronic or acute pancreatitis, as determined by the investigator
* Serum amylase \>=3 ×ULN and/or serum lipase \>=2 × ULN and/or subject is experiencing any symptoms possibly related to pancreatitis
* Prior use of a GLP-1R agonist or DPP-IV inhibitor within 6 months before Screening

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
This study is designed to examine the long term safety and efficacy of weekly subcutaneously injected albiglutide in combination with a single oral antidiabetic drug for 52 weeks in Japanese subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Detailed Description:
This study is designed to examine the long term safety and efficacy of weekly subcutaneously injected albiglutide in combination with a single oral antidiabetic drug for 52 weeks in Japanese subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Subjects with a historical diagnosis of type 2 diabetes mellitus who are inadequately controlled on a single oral antidiabetic agent will be recruited into the study. Subjects will continue on their single antidiabetic agent and once weekly albiglutide will be added.