STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00719043
Brief Title: Immunogenicity & Safety of GSK's Avian Flu Vaccine 1557484A Given to Adults Aged ≥18 Years
Official Title: A Trial to Evaluate the Safety and Immunogenicity of Monovalent H5N1 Vaccine in Adults >=18 Yrs of Age
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2008-07-11
Completion Date: 2011-02-18

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE2
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: PREVENTION
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 841

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: A/Indonesia primed-A/turkey Influenza (H5N1)-F1-Placebo Group
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Healthy subjects aged 18 years of age or older at the time of enrolment were primed with one dose of Influenza A (H5N1) Virus Monovalent Vaccine, Adjuvanted (A/Indonesia) formulation 1 at Day 0 followed by one booster dose of A/turkey H5N1 vaccine formulation 1 at Day 182 and one dose of placebo (phosphate buffered saline, PBS) at Day 549. Influenza A (H5N1) Virus Monovalent Vaccine, Adjuvanted (A/Indonesia) and Placebo vaccines were administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the non-dominant arm while, A/turkey H5N1 vaccine was administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the dominant arm.
  Arm 2: A/Indonesia primed-A/turkey Influenza (H5N1)-F2-Placebo Group
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Healthy subjects aged 18 years of age or older at the time of enrolment were primed with one dose of Influenza A (H5N1) Virus Monovalent Vaccine, Adjuvanted (A/Indonesia) formulation 2 at Day 0 followed by one booster dose of A/turkey H5N1 vaccine formulation 2 at Day 182 and one dose of placebo (phosphate buffered saline, PBS) at Day 549. Influenza A (H5N1) Virus Monovalent Vaccine, Adjuvanted (A/Indonesia) and Placebo vaccines were administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the non-dominant arm while, A/turkey H5N1 vaccine was administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the dominant arm.
  Arm 3: A/Indonesia primed-A/turkey Influenza (H5N1)-F3-Placebo Group
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Healthy subjects aged 18 years of age or older at the time of enrolment were primed with one dose of Influenza A (H5N1) Virus Monovalent Vaccine, Adjuvanted (A/Indonesia) formulation 3 at Day 0, one dose of placebo (phosphate buffered saline, PBS) at Day 182 followed by one booster dose of A/turkey H5N1 vaccine formulation 3 at Day 549. Influenza A (H5N1) Virus Monovalent Vaccine, Adjuvanted (A/Indonesia) and A/turkey H5N1 vaccines were administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the non-dominant arm while, Placebo vaccine was administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the dominant arm.
  Arm 4: A/Indonesia primed-Placebo-A/turkey Influenza (H5N1)-F1-Group
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Healthy subjects aged 18 years of age or older at the time of enrolment were primed with one dose of Influenza A (H5N1) Virus Monovalent Vaccine, Adjuvanted (A/Indonesia) vaccine formulation 1 at Day 0, one dose of placebo (phosphate buffered saline, PBS) at Day 182 followed by one booster dose of A/turkey H5N1 vaccine formulation 1 at Day 549. Influenza A (H5N1) Virus Monovalent Vaccine, Adjuvanted (A/Indonesia) and A/turkey H5N1 vaccines were administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the non-dominant arm while, Placebo vaccine was administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the dominant arm.
  Arm 5: A/Indonesia primed-Placebo-A/turkey Influenza (H5N1)-F4-Group
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Healthy subjects aged 18 years of age or older at the time of enrolment were primed with one dose of Influenza A (H5N1) Virus Monovalent Vaccine, Adjuvanted (A/Indonesia) formulation 4 at Day 0, one dose of placebo (phosphate buffered saline, PBS) at Day 182 followed by one booster dose of A/turkey H5N1 vaccine formulation 4 at Day 549. Influenza A (H5N1) Virus Monovalent Vaccine, Adjuvanted (A/Indonesia) and A/turkey H5N1 vaccines were administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the non-dominant arm while, Placebo vaccine was administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the dominant arm.
  Arm 6: A/Indonesia primed-Placebo-A/turkey Influenza (H5N1)-F2-Group
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Healthy subjects aged 18 years of age or older at the time of enrolment were primed with one dose of Influenza A (H5N1) Virus Monovalent Vaccine, Adjuvanted (A/Indonesia) formulation 2 at Day 0, one dose of placebo (phosphate buffered saline, PBS) at Day 182 followed by one booster dose of A/turkey H5N1 vaccine formulation 2 at Day 549. Influenza A (H5N1) Virus Monovalent Vaccine, Adjuvanted (A/Indonesia) and A/turkey H5N1 vaccines were administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the non-dominant arm while, Placebo vaccine was administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the dominant arm.
  Arm 7: Naïve Placebo-A/turkey Influenza (H5N1)-F3-Group
    Type: PLACEBO_COMPARATOR
    Description: Healthy subjects aged 18 years of age or older at the time of vaccination received one dose of placebo (phosphate buffered saline, PBS) at Day 0 followed by two doses of A/turkey H5N1 vaccine formulation 3, one dose administered at Day 182 and the other at Day 549. Placebo vaccine and one dose of A/turkey H5N1 vaccine (Day 549) was administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the non-dominant arm while the other dose of A/turkey H5N1 vaccine (Day 182) was administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the dominant arm.

INTERVENTIONS
  1. A/turkey H5N1 vaccine (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: Administered as an intramuscular (IM) injection
  2. Influenza A (H5N1) Virus Monovalent Vaccine, Adjuvanted (A/Indonesia) (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: Administered as an intramuscular (IM) injection
  3. Placebo (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: Administered as an intramuscular (IM) injection

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of Seroconverted Subjects for Haemagglutination Inhibition (HI) Antibodies Against the A/Turkey/Turkey/1/2005 (A/Turkey) Virus Strain.
     Time Frame: At Day 559
     Description: A seroconverted subject was defined as a vaccinated subject who had either a pre-vaccination titer less than (\<) 1:10 and a post-vaccination reciprocal titer greater than or equal to (≥) 1:40 or a pre-vaccination reciprocal titer ≥ 1:10 and at least a 4-fold increase in post-vaccination titer. Pre-vaccination for this outcome measure corresponds to Day 549. This outcome concerns solely subjects in the Pumarix Primed-Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 3, Pumarix Primed-Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 1, Pumarix Primed-Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 4 and Pumarix Primed-Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 2 groups.
  2. Number of Seroconverted Subjects for Haemagglutination Inhibition (HI) Antibodies Against the A/Turkey/Turkey/1/2005 (A/Turkey) Virus Strain.
     Time Frame: At Day 192
     Description: A seroconverted subject was defined as a vaccinated subject who had either a pre-vaccination titer less than (\<) 1:10 and a post-vaccination reciprocal titer greater than or equal to (≥) 1:40 or a pre-vaccination reciprocal titer ≥ 1:10 and at least a 4-fold increase in post-vaccination titer. Pre-vaccination for this outcome measure corresponds to Day 182. This outcome concerns solely subjects in the Naïve Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 3 Group
  3. Haemagglutination Inhibition (HI) Antibody Titers Against the A/Turkey/Turkey/1/2005 (A/Turkey) Strain.
     Time Frame: At Days 549 and 559
     Description: HI antibody titers against the A/turkey virus strain were expressed as geometric mean titers (GMTs). This outcome concerns solely subjects in the Pumarix Primed-Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 3, Pumarix Primed-Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 1, Pumarix Primed-Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 4 and Pumarix Primed-Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 2 groups.
  4. Haemagglutination Inhibition (HI) Antibody Titers Against the A/Turkey/Turkey/1/2005 (A/Turkey) Strain.
     Time Frame: At Days 182 and 192
     Description: HI antibody titers against the A/turkey virus strain were expressed as geometric mean titers (GMTs). This outcome concerns solely subjects in the Naïve Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 3 Group.
  5. Number of Seroprotected Subjects for Haemagglutination Inhibition (HI) Antibodies Against the A/Turkey/Turkey/1/2005 (A/Turkey) Virus Strain.
     Time Frame: At Days 549 and 559
     Description: A seroprotected subject was defined as a vaccinated subject with HI antibody titers against the A/turkey virus strain greater than or equal to (≥) 1:40. This outcome concerns solely subjects in the Pumarix Primed-Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 3, Pumarix Primed-Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 1, Pumarix Primed-Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 4 and Pumarix Primed-Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 2 groups.
  6. Number of Seroprotected Subjects for Haemagglutination Inhibition (HI) Antibodies Against the A/Turkey/Turkey/1/2005 (A/Turkey) Virus Strain.
     Time Frame: At Days 182 and 192
     Description: A seroprotected subject was defined as a vaccinated subject with HI antibody titers against the A/turkey virus strain greater than or equal to (≥) 1:40. This outcome concerns solely subjects in the Naïve Placebo-A/turkey H5N1-Formulation 3 Group.
  7. Number of Subjects With Solicited Local Symptoms
     Time Frame: Within the 7-day (Days 0-6) post vaccination periods
     Description: Assessed solicited local symptoms were pain, redness and swelling. Any was defined as an occurrence of the specified solicited local symptom regardless of its intensity.
  8. Number of Subjects With Solicited General Symptoms
     Time Frame: Within the 7-day (Days 0-6) post vaccination periods
     Description: Solicited general symptoms assessed were fatigue, headache, joint pain at other locations (joint pain), muscle aches, shivering, sweating and fever. Any was defined as an occurrence of the specified solicited general symptom, irrespective of its intensity or relationship to vaccination. Any fever was defined as oral temperature higher than or equal to (≥) 38.0 degrees Celsius (°C).
  9. Number of Subjects With Medically-attended Adverse Events (MAEs)
     Time Frame: From Day 0 to Day 909
     Description: MAEs were defined as adverse events with medically-attended visits that were not routine visits for physical examination or vaccination, such as visits for hospitalization, an emergency room visit, or an otherwise unscheduled visit to or from medical personnel (medical doctor) for any reason. Any was defined as any occurrence of MAE(s).
  10. Number of Subjects With Unsolicited Adverse Events (AEs)
     Time Frame: Within the 43-day (Days 0-42) post-vaccination periods
     Description: An unsolicited AE was defined as an untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject, temporally associated with use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product and reported in addition to those solicited during the clinical study and any solicited symptom with onset outside the specified period of follow-up for solicited symptoms. Any was defined as any occurrence of an unsolicited AE in a subject, regardless of intensity grade or relation to vaccination.
  11. Number of Subjects With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs)
     Time Frame: From Day 0 to Day 909
     Description: A SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that: resulted in death, was life threatening, required hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, resulted in disability/incapacity or was a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject. Any was defined as an occurrence of an SAE, regardless its relationship to vaccination.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of Seroconverted Subjects for Haemagglutination Inhibition (HI) Antibodies Against the A/Turkey/Turkey/1/2005 (A/Turkey) Virus Strain.
     Time Frame: At Day 192
  2. Haemagglutination Inhibition (HI) Antibody Titers Against the A/Turkey Virus Strain.
     Time Frame: At Days 182 and 192
  3. Number of Seroprotected Subjects for Haemagglutination Inhibition (HI) Antibodies Against the A/Turkey/Turkey/1/2005 (A/Turkey) Virus Strain.
     Time Frame: At Days 182 and 192
  4. Number of Seroprotected Subjects for Haemagglutination Inhibition (HI) Antibodies Against the A/Turkey/Turkey/1/2005 (A/Turkey) Virus Strain.
     Time Frame: At Day 224
  5. Number of Seroprotected Subjects for Haemagglutination Inhibition (HI) Antibodies Against the A/Turkey/Turkey/1/2005 (A/Turkey) Virus Strain.
     Time Frame: At Day 591

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* A male or female 18 years of age or older at the time of the first vaccination.
* Written informed consent obtained from the subject.
* Stable health status as defined by absence of a health event satisfying the definition of a serious adverse event, or a change in an ongoing drug therapy due to therapeutic failure or symptoms of drug toxicity, within 1 month prior to enrollment.
* Access to a consistent means of telephone contact, which may be either in the home or at the workplace, land line or mobile, but NOT a pay phone or other multiple-user device.
* Comprehension of the study requirements, expressed availability for the required study period, and ability to attend scheduled visits.
* Subjects who the investigator believes can and will comply with the requirements of the protocol

Exclusion Criteria:

* Presence of evidence of substance abuse or of neurological or psychiatric diagnoses which, even if clinically stable, are deemed by the investigator to render the potential subject unable/unlikely to provide accurate safety reports.
* Diagnosed with cancer, or treatment for cancer, within 3 years.

  * Persons with a history of cancer who are disease-free without treatment for 3 years or more are eligible.
  * Persons with a history of histologically-confirmed basal cell carcinoma of the skin successfully treated with local excision only are excepted and may enroll within 3 years of diagnosis, but other histologic types of skin cancer require a 3 year untreated and disease-free window as above.
  * Women who are disease-free 3 years or more after treatment for breast cancer and receiving long-term prophylactic tamoxifen are excepted and may enroll.
* Presence of an oral temperature ≥ 37.8ºC, or acute symptoms greater than "mild" severity on the scheduled date of first vaccination.
* Any confirmed or suspected immunosuppressive or immunodeficient condition including history of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
* Receipt of systemic glucocorticoids (prednisone \>= 10 mg/day for more than 14 consecutive days) within 1 month prior to study enrollment, or any other cytotoxic or immunosuppressive drug within 6 months of study enrollment.
* Any significant disorder of coagulation or treatment with Coumadin derivatives or heparin.
* Administration of any vaccines within 30 days before the first study vaccine dose.
* Previous administration of any H5N1 vaccine.
* Use of any investigational or non-registered product (drug or vaccine) or planned participation in another investigational study within 30 days prior to study enrollment, or during the 18 months following the first test article dose. Use of any investigational or non-registered product with immunosuppressive properties is exclusionary at any time during the trial.
* Receipt of any immunoglobulins and/or any blood products within 6 months of study enrollment or planned administration of any of these products during the study period.
* Any known or suspected 

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
The purpose of this study is to determine whether GSK's avian flu vaccine GSK 1557484A is immunogenic and safe when given to adults aged \>=18 years.

This Protocol Posting has been updated following Amendments 1-3 of the Protocol, Dec 2009. The impacted sections are study design and outcome measures.

Detailed Description:
All subjects will receive 3 doses of study vaccine, including 2 doses of active vaccine and 1 dose of placebo. All subjects will attend formal study center visits for safety and immunogenicity assessments on Days 0, 10, 42, 182, 192, 224, 549, 559, 591, and 729. A telephone contact to assess safety will be made at Day 364 and Day 909.