STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00224484
Brief Title: Safety Study of Herpes Simplex Vaccine in HSV Seronegative and Seropositive Females Between 10 and 17 Years Old
Official Title: A Study to Evaluate the Immunogenicity and Safety of GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals' Herpes Simplex Candidate Vaccine (gD2-AS04) in Healthy HSV Seronegative and Seropositive Female Subjects Aged 10-17 Years.
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2004-04-07
Completion Date: 2007-07-24

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE3
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: PREVENTION
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 5960

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: GD2-AS04 GROUP
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Female subjects aged 10-17 years, who received 3 doses of gD2-AS04 vaccine, which were administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the non-dominant arm according to a 0, 1, 6 months schedule.
  Arm 2: HAVRIX GROUP
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: Female subjects aged 10-17 years, who received 3 doses of Havrix, which were administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the non-dominant arm according to a 0, 1, 6 months schedule.
  Arm 3: SALINE GROUP
    Type: PLACEBO_COMPARATOR
    Description: Female subjects aged 10-17 years, who received 3 doses of a saline solution, which were administered intramuscularly in the deltoid region of the non-dominant arm according to a 0, 1, 6 months schedule.

INTERVENTIONS
  1. GSK208141 (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: 3 intramuscular doses
  2. Havrix (investigational formulation) (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: 3 intramuscular doses
  3. Placebo (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: 3 intramuscular doses

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of Subjects With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs)
     Time Frame: From Month 0 to Month 12
     Description: Serious adverse events (SAEs) assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization or result in disability/incapacity.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of Subjects With Any and Grade 3 Solicited Local Symptoms
     Time Frame: Within 7 days (Days 0-6) after each and any vaccination
  2. Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Solicited General Symptoms
     Time Frame: Within 7 days (Days 0-6) after each and any vaccination
  3. Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Unsolicited Adverse Events (AEs)
     Time Frame: Within 30 days (Day 0-29) after any vaccination
  4. Number of Subjects With Unsolicited Adverse Events (AEs) With Medically Attended Visits
     Time Frame: Within the 30 Day (Day 0-29) post-vaccination period
  5. Number of Subjects With New Onset Chronic Diseases (NOCD)
     Time Frame: During the active phase (up to Month 12)

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: FEMALE
Minimum Age: 10 Years
Maximum Age: 17 Years
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Subjects who the investigator believes that can and will comply with the requirements of the protocol should be enrolled in the study.
* Healthy female between, and including, 10 and 17 years of age at the time of the first vaccination.
* Written informed assent obtained from the subject and written informed consent obtained from a parent or legal guardian of the subject prior to enrolment. If the subject is above the legal age of consent in her country, written informed consent will only be obtained from the subject.
* Subjects must have a negative urine pregnancy test.
* Subjects of childbearing potential at the time of study entry must be abstinent or must be using an effective method of birth control for 30 days prior to vaccination and must agree to continue such precautions for two months after completion of the vaccination series. Subjects who reach menarche during the study and therefore are of childbearing potential must agree to follow the same precautions.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Use of any investigational or non-registered product (drug or vaccine) other than the study vaccine(s) within 30 days preceding the first dose of study vaccine, or planned use during the study period.
* Pregnant or lactating female.
* Female planning to become pregnant or likely to become pregnant during the first eight months of the study (months 0-8).
* Any previous confirmed history of, or current clinical signs or symptoms of, oro labial herpes (cold sores), herpetic whitlow or genital herpes disease, such as swelling, papules, vesicles, pustules, ulcers, crusts, fissures, erythema, discharge, dysuria or pain, burning, itching, tingling in the ano-genital area.
* History of previous or planned vaccination against hepatitis A or a history of hepatitis A infection.
* Previous vaccination against herpes.
* History of herpetic keratitis.
* History of multiform erythema.
* Planned administration/administration of a vaccine not foreseen by the study protocol within 30 days before and 30 days after the first dose of study vaccine with the following exceptions: administration of routine meningococcal, hepatitis B, inactivated influenza, diphtheria/tetanus and/or diphtheria/tetanus-containing vaccine up to 8 days before and 30 days after the first dose of study vaccine.
* History of allergic disease or reactions likely to be exacerbated by any component of the study vaccines
* Any confirmed or suspected immunosuppressive or immunodeficient condition based on medical history and physical examination
* History of a current acute or chronic autoimmune disease.
* History of any neurological disorders or seizures, with the exception of a single febrile seizure during childhood.
* Acute or chronic, clinically significant pulmonary, cardiovascular, hepatic or renal functional abnormality
* Acute disease at the time of enrolment
* Oral temperature \>= 37.5°C (99.5°F) / axillary temperature \>= 37.5°C (99.5°F) at the time of enrolment.
* Chronic admin

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
Main goal of this study is to compare the occurrence of serious adverse events (SAEs) between the herpes simplex (gD2-AS04) vaccine group and the Saline control group throughout the study period (up to month 12).

The Protocol Posting has been updated in order to comply with the FDA Amendment Act, Sep 2007.

Detailed Description:
Three groups of females (3000, 1500 and 1500 subjects, respectively) were injected 3 times (at months 0, 1 and 6) with the herpes simplex vaccine, the HavrixTM vaccine (control) and a Saline solution (placebo), respectively. Subjects were followed over 18 months.