STUDY: An International Phase Ib Multicentre Study to Characterize the Safety and Tolerability of Intravenously Administered S64315, a Selective Mcl-1 Inhibitor, in Combination With Orally Administered Venetoclax, a Selective Bcl-2 Inhibitor in Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukaemia (AML).
NCT ID: NCT03672695
Sponsor: Servier

Phase: PHASE1
Design: SEQUENTIAL
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 37

Arm: Initial Schedule - S64315 low dose and venetoclax high dose administered in combination (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Initial Schedule - S64315 medium dose and venetoclax low dose administered in combination (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Initial Schedule - S64315 medium dose and venetoclax medium dose administered in combination (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Initial Schedule - S64315 medium dose and venetoclax high dose administered in combination (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: S 64315 (also referred as MIK665) and venetoclax

PRIMARY: Incidence of Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLTs)
  Time: At the end of cycle 1 (each cycle is 21 or 28 days).
PRIMARY: Incidence and severity of AEs
  Time: Through study completion, an average of 6 months.
PRIMARY: Incidence and severity of SAEs
  Time: Through study completion, an average of 6 months.

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Male or female aged ≥ 18 years;
2. Patients with cytologically confirmed and documented de novo, secondary or therapy-related AML as defined by World Health Organization (WHO) 2016 classification (Arber, 2016), excluding acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL, French-American British M3 classification):

   * With relapsed or refractory disease without established alternative therapy or
   * Secondary to MDS treated at least by hypomethylating agent and without established alternative therapy or
   * ≥ 65 years not previously treated for AML and who are not candidates for intensive chemotherapy nor candidates for established alternative therapy
3. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status ≤ 2
4. Able to comply with study procedures
5. Adequate renal function within 7 days before the inclusion of the patient defined as:

   • Serum creatinine ≤ 1.5 x ULN (upper normal limit) or calculated creatinine clearance (determined by MDRD) \> 50 mL/min/1.73m2
6. Adequate hepatic function within 7 days before the inclusion of the patient defined as:

   * AST and ALT ≤ 1.5 x ULN
   * Total serum bilirubin level ≤ 1.5 x ULN, except for patients with known Gilbert's syndrome, who are excluded if total bilirubin \> 3.0 x ULN or direct bilirubin \> 1.5 x ULN

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Participant already enrolled and treated in the study
2. Pregnancy, breastfeeding or possibility of becoming pregnant during the study
3. Participation in another interventional study requiring investigational treatment intake at the same time or within 2 weeks or at least 5 halflives (whichever is longer) prior to first dose of IMP (participation in non-interventional registries or epidemiological studies is allowed). In case of biologic agents with a long half life such as CART cells, immune checkpoint antibodies, bispecific antibodies a flat wash-out of 28 days will be acceptable
4. Presence of ≥ CTCAE Grade 2 toxicity (except alopecia of any grade) due to prior

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety profile, tolerability and the Recommended Phase 2 Dose of the combination S64315 with venetoclax in patients with Acute Myeloid Leukaemia.