STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT01484496
Brief Title: A Study of Belimumab Administered Subcutaneously in Subjects With Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE)
Official Title: A Phase 3, Multi-Center, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, 52-Week Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Belimumab (HGS1006) Administered Subcutaneously (SC) to Subjects With Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE)
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2011-11-16
Completion Date: 2015-10-01

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE3
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 839

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Placebo plus standard therapy
    Type: PLACEBO_COMPARATOR
    Description: Placebo SC plus standard therapy; placebo administered on Day 0 and then weekly (ie, every 7 days) through Week 51, with final evaluation at Week 52 in the double-blind period. In the open-label extension period, placebo subjects who opt to participate will receive belimumab 200 mg SC weekly for an additional 6-months.
  Arm 2: Belimumab 200 mg SC plus standard therapy
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Belimumab 200 mg SC plus standard therapy; belimumab administered on Day 0 and then weekly (ie, every 7 days) through Week 51, with a final evaluation at Week 52 in the double-blind period. In the open-label extension period, subjects who opt to participate will continue on the same dose of belimumab for an additional 6-months.

INTERVENTIONS
  1. Placebo (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: Placebo
  2. Belimumab 200 mg SC (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: Belimumab 200 mg SC
  3. Standard therapy (DRUG)
     Description: Standard therapy comprises any of the following (alone or in combination): corticosteroids, antimalarials, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and immunosuppressives; biologics and intravenous cyclophosphamide are not permitted.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Percentage of Par. Achieving a SLE Responder Index (SRI) Response Rate at Week 52
     Time Frame: Week 52
     Description: SRI response is defined as \>=4 point reduction, from Baseline in safety of estrogen in lupus national assessment (SELENA) systemic lupus erythematosus disease activity index (SLEDAI) score, no worsening (increase of \<0.30 points from Baseline) in physician's global assessment (PGA) and no new British Isles Lupus Assessment Group of SLE clinics (BILAG) A organ domain score or 2 new BILAG B organ domain scores compared with Baseline. Analysis was performed using a logistic regression model for the comparison between belimumab and placebo with covariates treatment group, Baseline SELENA SLEDAI score (\<=9 vs. \>=10), Baseline complement levels (low C3 and/or C4 vs. no low C3 or C4) and race (black vs. other).

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Time to First Severe Flare (as Measured by the Modified SLE Flare Index)
     Time Frame: Baseline (Day 0, prior to dosing) to Week 52
  2. Percentage of Par. Whose Average Prednisone Dose Had Been Reduced by >=25% From Baseline to <=7.5 mg/Day During Weeks 40 Through 52 in Par. Receiving Greater Than 7.5 mg/Day at Baseline
     Time Frame: Baseline (Day 0, prior to dosing), Weeks 40 through Week 52

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

1. At least 18 years of age.
2. Clinical diagnosis of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) by ACR criteria.
3. Active SLE disease.
4. Autoantibody-positive.
5. On stable SLE treatment regimen which may include corticosteroids (for example, prednisone), antimalarial (for example, hydroxychloroquine) and/or immunosuppressants (for example, azathioprine, methotrexate, mycophenolate, etc.)

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Pregnant or nursing.
2. Have received treatment with any B cell targeted therapy (for example, rituximab or belimumab).
3. Have received treatment an investigational biological agent in the past year.
4. Have received intravenous (IV) cyclophosphamide within 90 days of Day 0.
5. Have severe active lupus kidney disease.
6. Have severe active central nervous system (CNS) lupus.
7. Have required management of acute or chronic infections within the past 60 days.
8. Have current drug or alcohol abuse or dependence.
9. Have a positive test for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B, or hepatitis C.
10. Have a history of hypersensitivity reactions to contrast agents or biological medicines.

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of belimumab administered subcutaneously (SC) to adult subjects with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE).

Detailed Description:
This is a Phase 3, multi-center, international, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 52-week study to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of belimumab administered subcutaneously (SC) (200 mg weekly) in adult subjects with active Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE). Approximately 816 SLE subjects will be randomized, with a target of about 544 subjects receiving belimumab and 272 subjects receiving placebo. Subjects completing the 52-week double-blind period can enter a 6-month open-label extension in which all subjects receive belimumab 200 mg SC weekly.