STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT01077531
Brief Title: Safety, Pharmacodynamics and Pharmacokinetics of GSK2136525 Repeat Dose in Rheumatoid Arthritis
Official Title: A Randomized, Placebo-controlled, Single-blind Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Multiple Doses of Otelixizumab in Rheumatoid Arthritis Subjects
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: TERMINATED
Start Date: 2010-04-28
Completion Date: 2013-03-19

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE1
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: SINGLE
Enrollment: 12

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Otelixizumab
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: Otelixizumab (GSK2136525) is a humanised, aglycosyl, non-mitogenic, anti CD3 monoclonal antibody (MAb).
  Arm 2: Placebo
    Type: PLACEBO_COMPARATOR
    Description: Matching placebo for intravenous infusion

INTERVENTIONS
  1. Otelixizumab (DRUG)
     Description: Otelixizumab injection for intravenous infusion. Otelixizumab (GSK2136525) is a humanised, aglycosyl, non-mitogenic, anti CD3 monoclonal antibody (MAb).
  2. Matching placebo (DRUG)
     Description: Matching placebo for intravenous infusion

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Safety and tolerability of multiple doses of otelixizumab: adverse events, ECGs, laboratory safety results, Epstein-Barr Virous viral load, JCV detection.
     Time Frame: 48 months
     Description: N/A
  2. Saturation and modulation of CD3/TCR complex on peripheral blood T cells
     Time Frame: Six months
     Description: N/A
  3. Individual absolute and percentage circulating peripheral T lymphocytes and CD4+ and CD8+ subset counts
     Time Frame: Six months
     Description: N/A

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Serum concentrations of otelixizumab and PK parameters
     Time Frame: Five days
  2. Individual absolute and percentage circulating Treg as measured by foxP3+ and CD4 + foxP3+ subsets
     Time Frame: Six months
  3. Anti-otelixizumab antibody titres and whether detected antibodies are neutralising
     Time Frame: Three months

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: 75 Years
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Male or female subjects between 18 and 75 years of age inclusive.
* Female subjects of: a. non-childbearing potential defined as pre-menopausal females with a documented tubal ligation or hysterectomy; or postmenopausal defined as 12 months of spontaneous amenorrhea \[in questionable cases a blood sample with simultaneous follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) \> 40 mIU/ml and estradiol \<40 pg/ml (\<140 pmol/L) is confirmatory\]. Females on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and whose menopausal status is in doubt will be required to use one of the contraception methods in Section 8.1 if they wish to continue their HRT during the study. Otherwise, they must discontinue HRT to allow confirmation of post-menopausal status prior to study enrollment. For most forms of HRT, at least 2-4 weeks will elapse between the cessation of therapy and the blood draw; this interval depends on the type and dosage of HRT. Following confirmation of their post-menopausal status, they can resume use of HRT during the study without use of a contraceptive method. b. Child-bearing potential and agrees to use one of the contraception methods listed in Section 8.1 of the protocol for an appropriate period of time to sufficiently minimize the risk of pregnancy at that point. Female subjects must agree to use contraception for at least 2 weeks prior to dosing and for at least 60 days after the last dose.
* Male subjects must agree to use one of the contraception methods listed in Section 8.1 of the protocol. This criterion must be followed from the time of the first dose of study medication until at least 60 days after the last dose.
* Body mass index within the range 18.5 - 35 kg/m2 inclusive.
* Capable of giving written informed consent, which includes compliance with the requirements and restrictions listed in the consent form and willing and able to follow the procedures outlined in the protocol.
* A 12-lead ECG at pre-study screening measured in triplicate, which in the opinion of the Principal Investigator or physician designee has no abnormalities that will compromise safety in this study. QTcB \< 450 msec; or QTc \< 480 msec in subjects with Bundle Branch Block.
* The subject has a diagnosis of RA according to the revised 1987 criteria of the American College of Rheumatology.
* The subject tests positive for Rheumatoid factor.
* The subject has active disease with at least 3 swollen and 3 tender joints, early morning joint stiffness ≥ 30 minutes and a serum CRP\>5mg/L (3 out of 4) at screening.
* The subject has ACR functional class I-III.
* The subject has persistent disease activity in spite of therapy with at least one DMARD.
* The subject has not previously received otelixizumab or any other anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody, e.g., OKT3 (muromonab or Orthoclone), ChAglyCD3, or hOKT3γ1 (ala ala), and is willing to refrain from using any such antibody for 2 years after the last dose of study drug unless invited to participate in possible future studie

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
The assessment of otelixizumab in rheumatoid arthritis subjects will provide safety, tolerability, pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic information which will enable the identification of appropriate safe and well-tolerated dosage regimens to be used in clinical efficacy studies. This study will consist of a screening phase, followed by a treatment period where four cohorts of subjects will receive 5 daily intravenous infusions of otelixizumab. The cumulative dose will increase in each successive cohort and infusion rates can be adjusted based on signs and symptoms of cytokine release syndrome and to ensure the specified maximum infusion rate is not exceeded. Serial blood samples will be obtained for clinical laboratory testing, determination of pharmacodynamic markers, serum otelixizumab PK parameters, exploratory biomarkers and immunogenicity. Safety and pharmacodynamic data from the previous cohort(s) will be evaluated prior to dosing subsequent cohorts to ensure safety. Adverse events, laboratory values, vital signs and ECG's will be monitored closely during this study. All subjects in the study will undergo long-term follow-up out to 48 months to monitor patient safety.