STUDY: Effects of Serious Games for Shoulder Rehabilitation and Measurement of Approximation Force: Randomized Controlled Trial
NCT ID: NCT05184309
Sponsor: Istanbul Medipol University Hospital

Phase: NA
Design: PARALLEL
Masking: SINGLE
Enrollment: 40

Arm: Conventional exercise group (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Serious game group (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: ConventioanalExercises
Intervention: Serious games

PRIMARY: Pain assessment- Visual Analogue scale
  Time: 5 minutes
  Desc: Pain level is measured with the visual analogue scale (VAS), at rest and activity. The visual analogue scale consists of a 10-cm line. Participants were asked to indicate in the scale their current level of pain where the higher values are more intense pain.
PRIMARY: Range of motion
  Time: 5 minutes
  Desc: The range of motion of the joint of the individuals participating in the study will be evaluated with Becure Extremity ROM. The patient stands in front of the camera and perform the directed movement. In this study, flexion, abduction and external rotation ranges of motion of the shoulder joint will be measured.
PRIMARY: Joint position sense
  Time: 5 minutes
  Desc: The joint position sense of the individuals will be evaluated with the Becure Extremity ROM. Subjects will be first asked to raise their shoulder to a certain degree and bring it to the same angle value with eyes closed. The difference between shoulder angles will be calculated by recording the angle value formed with eyes closed and open.

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* being between the ages of 40-60,
* having pain for more than 4 weeks,
* not having had any shoulder surgery

Exclusion Criteria:

* Individuals with cervical-origin neurological findings, uncooperative, different orthopedic problems in the same shoulder,
* neurological, vascular and cardiac problems that limit function

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to examine the effect of Serious-Game Exercise (SGE) platform on pain, range of motion (ROM), joint position sense, shoulder functions, and approximation force in patients with rotator cuff rupture. In addition, another objective is to evaluate the usage of balance board as a measurement tool for measuring the approximation force in the rotator cuff rupture.