STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT03274882
Brief Title: Study of Efficacy and Safety of S 95005 (TAS-102) in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Who Failed Standard Chemotherapies
Official Title: Open-label Multicentre Confirmatory Study of Efficacy and Safety of S 95005 (TAS-102) in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Who Are Refractory or Intolerant to Standard Chemotherapies
Sponsor: Servier

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2017-03-03
Completion Date: 2018-12-03

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE2
Allocation: NA
Intervention Model: SINGLE_GROUP
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 26

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: S95005
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Film-coated tablet containing 15 mg of trifluridine and 7.065 mg of tipiracil hydrochloride, or 20 mg of trifluridine and 9.42 mg of tipiracil hydrochloride (with a molar ratio of 1:0.5) was administered at 35 mg/m²/dose orally twice a day, within 1 hour after completion of morning and evening meals, for 5 days on/2 days off, over 2 weeks, followed by a 14-day rest period. This treatment cycle was repeated every 4 weeks until treatment withdrawal criteria are met.

INTERVENTIONS
  1. S95005 (DRUG)
     Description: The treatment is given in open manner. It was administered until unacceptable toxicity according to the investigator, disease progression or patient withdrawal. If a patient discontinues study treatment for reasons other than radiologic disease progression (e.g., intolerable side effects), the patient was followed for tumour response until radiologic disease progression or initiation of new anticancer therapy (whichever occurs first).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Progression free survival (PFS) rate
     Time Frame: at 2 months
     Description: percentage of patients alive without investigator-assessed radiological disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 after 2 months

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Progression-Free Survival (PFS).
     Time Frame: Through study completion, an average of 12 weeks
  2. Overall Response Rate (ORR).
     Time Frame: Through study completion, an average of 12 weeks
  3. Disease Control Rate (DCR)
     Time Frame: Through study completion, an average of 12 weeks
  4. Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability]
     Time Frame: Through study completion, an average of 12 weeks
  5. Abnormalities in laboratory tests (haematology, blood biochemistry and urinalysis) [safety and tolerability]
     Time Frame: Through study completion, an average of 12 weeks

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Male or female aged ≥18 years of age
* Has definitive histologically or cytologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the colon or rectum
* Has received at least 2 prior regimens of standard chemotherapies for metastatic colorectal cancer (including fluoropyrimidines, irinotecan and oxaliplatin and, if accessible, an anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody and at least one of the anti-EGFR monoclonal antibodies for RAS wild-type patients (if RAS mutation status was evaluated)) and was refractory or intolerant to those chemotherapies
* Has Eastern Cooperative Group (ECOG) performance status of 0 or 1
* Has at least one measurable metastatic lesion(s)
* Has adequate organ function
* Female participants of childbearing potential and male participants with partners of childbearing potential must agree to use a highly effective method of birth control during the study and for 6 months after the discontinuation of study medication

Exclusion Criteria:

* Pregnancy, breastfeeding
* Participation in another interventional study within 4 weeks prior to inclusion; participation in non-interventional registries or epidemiological studies is allowed
* Has previously received S95005 or history of allergic reaction attributed to compounds of similar composition to S95005
* Has a serious illness or medical condition(s) as described in the protocol
* Has had certain other recent treatment e.g. major surgery, field radiation, anticancer therapy, within the specified time frames prior to inclusion
* Has unresolved toxicity of greater than or equal to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Grade 2 attributed to any prior therapies.

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of S 95005 in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) who are refractory or intolerant to standard chemotherapies in terms of Progression-Free Survival rate at 2 months in the Russian population.