STUDY: Study DB2116961, A Multicentre, Randomised, Blinded, Parallel Group Study to Compare UMEC/VI (Umeclidinium/Vilanterol) in a Fixed Dose Combination With Indacaterol Plus Tiotropium in Symptomatic Subjects With Moderate to Very Severe COPD
NCT ID: NCT02257385
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE3
Design: PARALLEL
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 967

Arm: UMEC/VI arm (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Tiotropium + Indacaterol arm (PLACEBO_COMPARATOR)
Intervention: UMEC/VI
Intervention: UMEC/VI matching placebo
Intervention: Tiotropium
Intervention: Tiotropium matching placebo

PRIMARY: Change From Baseline in Trough Forced Expiratory Volume in One Second (FEV1) on Treatment Day 85 (Visit 8)
  Time: Baseline (BL) and Day 85
  Desc: FEV1 is a measure of lung function and is defined as the maximal amount of air that can be forcefully exhaled in 1 second. BL was the mean of the 2 assessments made 30 and 5 minutes (min) pre-dose (PD) on Day 1. Trough FEV1 measurements were taken electronically by spirometry on Days 2, 28, 56, 84 and 85. Trough FEV1 on Day 85 is defined as the mean of the FEV1 values obtained at 23 and 24 hours (

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Type of subject: Outpatient
* Informed Consent: A signed and dated written informed consent prior to study participation.
* Participants 40 years of age or older at Visit 1.
* Gender: Male or female participants. A female is eligible to enter and participate in the study if she is of: Non-child bearing potential (i.e., physiologically incapable of becoming pregnant, including any female who is post-menopausal or surgically sterile). Surgically sterile females are defined as those with a documented hysterectomy and/or bilateral oophorectomy or tubal ligation. Post-menopausal females are defined as being amenorrhoeic for greater than 1 year with an appropriate clinical profile, e.g., age appropriate, \> 45 years, in the absence of hormone replacement therapy.OR Child bearing potential, has a negative pregnancy test at screening, and agrees to one of the following acceptable contraceptive methods used consistently and correctly (i.e., in accordance with the approved product label and the instructions of the physician for the duration of the study screening to follow-up contact): Abstinence, Oral Contraceptive, either combined or progestogen alone, Injectable progestogen, Implants of levonorgestrel, Estrogenic vaginal ring, Percutaneous contraceptive patches, Intrauterine device (IUD) or intrauterine system (IUS) that meets the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) effectiveness criteria as stated in the product label, Male partner sterilization (vasectomy with documentation of azoospermia) prior to the female subject's entry into the study, and this male is the sole partner for that subject. For this definition, "documented" refers to the outcome of the investigator's/designee's medical examination of the subject or review of the subject's medical history for study eligibility, as obtained via a verbal interview with the subject or from the subject' s medical records. Double barrier method: condom and an occlusive cap (diaphragm or cervical/vault ca

SUMMARY:
This is a Phase IIIb multicentre, randomised, blinded, triple dummy, parallel group study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of UMEC/VI inhalation powder (62.5/25 microgram \[mcg\] Once daily \[QD\]) when administered via ELLIPTA® Dry Powder Inhaler (DPI) compared to indacaterol plus tiotropium (150 mcg/18 mcg respectively QD) administered via individual inhalers over a treatment period of 12 weeks in participants with moderate to very severe Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that UMEC/VI (delivered via ELLIPTA DPI), when used in symptomatic moderate to very severe COPD participants, is non-inferior to the combination of indacaterol (delivered via BREEZHALER® inhaler) plus tiotropium (delivered via HANDIHALER® inhaler) on measures of trough forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) after 12 weeks of treatment. Participants who met the eligibility criteria at screening (Visit 1) will complete a 5 to 7 day run in period prior to randomisation at Visit 2. Clinic visits will follow at day 2, week 2, week 4, week 8 and week 12 of treatment, plus week 12 + 1 day (Visits 3 to 8). The total duration of study participation will be approximately 14 weeks. ELLIPTA is a registered trademark of the GSK group of companies. HANDIHALER is a registered trademark of Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH \& Co. KG. BREEZHALER is a registered trademark of Novartis AG.