STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT02581410
Brief Title: Immunogenicity and Safety Study of GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) Biologicals' Herpes Zoster Subunit (HZ/su) Vaccine (GSK1437173A) in Adults ≥ 65 Years of Age With and Without Zostavax® Vaccination at Least 5 Years Earlier
Official Title: Immunogenicity and Safety Study of GSK Biologicals' Herpes Zoster Vaccine GSK1437173A in Adults ≥ 65 Years of Age With and Without Zostavax® Vaccination at Least 5 Years Earlier
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2015-12-15
Completion Date: 2017-08-01

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE3
Allocation: NON_RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: PREVENTION
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 430

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: GSK1437173A Group
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Subjects ≥ 65 years of age who received Zostavax vaccine ≥ 5 years earlier and received 2 doses of the HZ/su vaccine (first dose given at Month 0 and second dose given 2 months later) in this study.
  Arm 2: Control Group
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: Subjects ≥ 65 years of age who never received Zostavax vaccine and received 2 doses of the HZ/su vaccine (first dose given at Month 0 and second dose given 2 months later) in this study.

INTERVENTIONS
  1. GSK Biologicals Herpes Zoster subunit (HZ/su) vaccine (GSK 1437173A) (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: 2 doses administered by intramuscular (IM) injection into the deltoid muscle of the non-dominant arm.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Anti-glycoprotein E (Anti-gE) Antibody (Ab) Concentrations
     Time Frame: One month after dose 2, at Month 3
     Description: Varicella Zoster Virus (VZV) gE Ab.Immunoglobulin G (IgG) was determined by Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA). Concentrations are presented as geometric mean concentrations (GMCs), expressed in milliinternational units per millilitre (mIU/mL). Geometric mean antibody concentrations were adjusted for group-matching variable.
  2. Number of Subjects With Solicited Local Symptoms
     Time Frame: During the 7-day (Days 0-6) period after each dose.
     Description: Assessed solicited local symptoms were pain, redness and swelling. Any = Occurrence of the symptom regardless of its intensity grade. Grade 3 pain = Significant pain at rest that prevented normal everyday activities. Grade 3 redness/swelling = redness/swelling spreading beyond 100 millimeters (mm) of injection site.
  3. Number of Days With Solicited Local Symptoms
     Time Frame: During the 7-day (Days 0-6) period after each dose.
     Description: Solicited local symptoms were assessed during the 7-day (Days 0-6) period after each dose.
  4. Number of Subjects With Solicited General Symptoms
     Time Frame: During the 7-day (Days 0-6) period after each dose.
     Description: Assessed solicited general symptoms were fatigue, gastrointestinal symptoms (included nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and/or abdominal pain), headache, myalgia, shivering and fever \[defined as axillary temperature equal to or above 37.5 degrees Celsius (°C)\] . Any = Occurrence of the symptom regardless of its intensity grade. Grade 3 symptom = symptom that prevented normal activity. Grade 3 fever = fever \> 39.0 °C. Related = symptom assessed by the investigator as related to the vaccination.
  5. Number of Days With Solicited General Symptoms
     Time Frame: During the 7-day (Days 0-6) period after each dose.
     Description: Solicited general symptoms were assessed during the 7-day (Days 0-6) period after each dose.
  6. Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Unsolicited Symptoms (AEs)
     Time Frame: During the 30-day (Days 0-29) period after each dose.
     Description: An unsolicited AE covers any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation subject temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product and reported in addition to those solicited during the clinical study and any solicited symptom with onset outside the specified period of follow-up for solicited symptoms. Any was defined as the occurrence of any unsolicited AE regardless of intensity grade or relation to vaccination. Grade 3 AE = an AE which prevented normal, everyday activities. Related = AE assessed by the investigator as related to the vaccination.
  7. Number of Subjects With Any and Related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs)
     Time Frame: From first vaccination (Month 0) up to 30 days post last vaccination (Month 3)
     Description: SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization or result in disability/incapacity. Related SAE = SAE assessed by the investigator as related to the vaccination.
  8. Number of Subjects With Any Potential Immune-mediated Diseases (pIMDs)
     Time Frame: From first vaccination (Month 0) up to 30 days post last vaccination (Month 3)
     Description: pIMDs are a subset of AEs that include autoimmune diseases and other inflammatory and/or neurologic disorders of interest which may or may not have an autoimmune aetiology.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Anti-gE Ab Concentrations
     Time Frame: At Months 0, 1, 3 and 14.
  2. Frequencies of gE-specific Cluster of Differentiation 4 (CD4+) T-cells
     Time Frame: At Months 0, 1, 3 and 14.
  3. Number of Subjects With Any and Related SAEs
     Time Frame: From 30 days post last vaccination (Month 3) until study end at Month 14
  4. Number of Subjects With Any pIMDs
     Time Frame: From 30 days post last vaccination (Month 3) until study end at Month 14

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 65 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Subjects who, in the opinion of the investigator, can and will comply with the requirements of the protocol.
* A male or female ≥ 65 years of age at the time of the first vaccination.
* Written informed consent obtained from the subject prior to performing any study specific procedure.

For the No prev-Zvax group only:

• No previous vaccination with Zostavax.

For the Prev-Zvax group only:

• Previous vaccination with Zostavax ≥ 5 calendar years earlier.

* Documentation indicating the date of previous Zostavax vaccination will be required.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Previous vaccination with Zostavax \< 5 calendar years earlier and/or anyone that ever received more than a single dose of Zostavax.
* Previous vaccination against VZV, administration of HZ/su vaccine or any other investigational or non-registered HZ vaccine (except Zostavax for the Prev-Zvax group).
* Use of any investigational or non-registered product other than the study vaccine during the period starting 30 days before the first dose of study vaccine, or planned use during the study period.
* Chronic administration (defined as \> 14 consecutive days) of immunosuppressants or other immune-modifying drugs in the period starting 6 months prior to the first dose of vaccine. (For corticosteroids, a prednisone dose of \< 20 mg/day, or equivalent, is allowed.) Inhaled, topical and intra-articular corticosteroids are allowed.
* Administration of long-acting immune-modifying drugs (e.g., infliximab) in the period starting 6 months prior to the first vaccine dose or expected administration at any time during the study period.
* Administration or planned administration of a live vaccine in the period starting 30 days before the first dose of study vaccine and ending 30 days after the last dose of study vaccine, or, administration or planned administration of a non-replicating vaccine in the period starting 8 days prior to and ending 14 days after either dose of study vaccine.
* Current participation in or planned concurrent participation in another clinical study, at any time during the study period, in which the subject has been or will be exposed to an investigational or a non-investigational product.
* Planned administration of an HZ vaccine (including an investigational or non-registered vaccine) other than the study vaccine during the entire study.
* History of HZ or any suspected HZ between the screening visit and Visit 1.
* History of any reaction or hypersensitivity likely to be exacerbated by any component of the vaccine/product.
* Any confirmed or suspected immunosuppressive or immunodeficient condition resulting from disease (e.g., malignancy, human immunodeficiency virus \[HIV\] infection) or immunosuppressive/cytotoxic therapy (e.g., medications used during cancer chemotherapy, organ transplantation or to treat autoimmune disorders).
* Acute disease and/or fever at the time of enrolment.

  * Fever is defined as temperature ≥ 37.5°C (99.5°F) by oral route,

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of GSK Biologicals' HZ/su vaccine in adults ≥ 65 years of age with and without Zostavax® vaccination at least 5 years earlier.

Detailed Description:
The study will evaluate two parallel groups of 200 adults ≥ 65 YOA; one group (Prev-Zvax) with a previous Zostavax® vaccination at least 5 years earlier, versus the other group without a previous Zostavax® vaccination (No prev-Zvax). The goal of this study is to generate immunogenicity, safety and reactogenicity data for the respective vaccines.