STUDY: An Open-label Study Investigating Critical and Overall Errors Following 14 Days of Treatment With SERETIDE Metered Dose Inhaler (EVOHALER) in Adult Subjects With Controlled Asthma Currently Using the SERETIDE DISKUS Inhaler
NCT ID: NCT02416180
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE4
Design: SINGLE_GROUP
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 111

Arm: SERETIDE EVOHALER (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: SERETIDE MDI
Intervention: Placebo DISKUS Inhaler
Intervention: Placebo MDI

PRIMARY: Percentage of Participants Making at Least One Critical Error After the First Assessment of Metered Dose Inhaler (MDI) Technique on Day 14
  Time: Day 14
  Desc: Participant's inhaler use was assessed on Day 14 by the health care professional (HCP) against a predefined list of critical errors (CEs). Critical errors were defined as errors that were most likely to result in no or only minimal medication being inhaled. The participants were asked to demonstrate their usage of the MDI using a placebo demonstration MDI by HCP, critical or non-critical errors (N

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* \>=18 years of age at the time of informed consent.
* A diagnosis of asthma as defined by the National Institutes of Health, 2007.
* Must be currently treated with SERETIDE via the DISKUS Inhaler and have been maintained on this dose for 3 months prior to Visit 1.
* Have controlled asthma defined as a total ACT score \>= 20
* Must be able to use their DISKUS inhaler correctly. Correct use is defined as making no critical errors during the assessment of DISKUS inhaler use at Visit 1.
* Male
* Female subject is eligible to participate if she is not pregnant (as confirmed by a negative urine human chorionic gonadotrophin \[hCG\] test), not lactating, and at least one of the following conditions applies: 1. Non-reproductive potential defined as: Pre-menopausal females with one of the following; documented tubal ligation, documented hysteroscopic tubal occlusion procedure with follow-up confirmation of bilateral tubal occlusion, hysterectomy, documented bilateral Oophorectomy. Postmenopausal defined as 12 months of spontaneous amenorrhea (in questionable cases a blood sample with simultaneous follicle stimulating hormone \[FSH\] and estradiol levels consistent with menopause). Females on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and whose menopausal status is in doubt will be required to use one of the highly effective contraception methods if they wish to continue their HRT during the study. Otherwise, they must discontinue HRT to allow confirmation of post-menopausal status prior to study enrolment. 2. Reproductive potential and agrees to follow one of the options listed below in the GSK modified list of highly effective methods for avoiding pregnancy in females of reproductive potential (FRP) requirements from 30 days prior to the first dose of study medication and until after the last dose of study medication and completion of the follow-up contact.

GSK modified list of highly effective methods for avoiding pregnancy in FRP: a. Contraceptive subdermal

SUMMARY:
This study aims to explore the potential impact of switching inhalers by assessing the handling error rate (critical and non-critical) in controlled asthmatics currently treated with, and using correctly, SERETIDE via the DISKUS Inhaler who are switched to receiving SERETIDE via the Metered Dose Inhaler (MDI) (EVOHALER) without training by a Healthcare Professional (HCP).

This will be a descriptive, multi-centre, open-label, non randomized 14 day study assessing MDI technique in subjects with controlled asthma (Asthma Control Test \[ACT\] score \>= 20 at Visit 1) currently treated with, and able to use correctly, SERETIDE via the DISKUS Inhaler. All the eligible subjects will be switched to an equivalent dose of SERETIDE via the MDI. Subjects will need to use the MDI inhaler in accordance the accompanying patient information leaflet (to be read prior to use) for approximately 14 days. No instruction, coaching or comment on inhaler technique will be provided by the HCP. MDI technique of subjects will be assessed at Visit 2 (after 14 days) and the errors will be recorded. Subject will revert back to using their SERETIDE DISKUS inhaler again from Visit 2. Subjects will be followed up by telephone for approximately 1 week after Visit 2.

A maximum of 110 subjects will be enrolled such that approximately 100 evaluable subjects complete the study. The total duration of the study for each subject will be approximately 21 days.

SERETIDE, EVOHALER and DISKUS are registered trademarks of the GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) group of companies