STUDY: A Patient Preference Evaluation Study of Fluticasone Furoate Nasal Spray and Mometasone Furoate Nasal Spray in Subjects With Allergic Rhinitis
NCT ID: NCT02397915
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE4
Design: CROSSOVER
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 300

Arm: Fluticasone Furoate (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Mometasone Furoate (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: FF nasal spray
Intervention: MF nasal spray

PRIMARY: Number of Participants With Overall Preference for Nasal Spray Assessed by Preference Questionnaire.
  Time: Approximately four minutes after the administration of the second treatment
  Desc: An overall preference questionnaire (OPQ) was used to evaluate participants' preference for nasal spray therapy for the given treatments. OPQ allows the responder three options, based on products attributes, i.e. preference for product 1; preference for product 2 and no preference. The OPQ was completed by each participant approximately 4 minutes after administration of the second treatment in Per

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Male or female subjects who are between 18 to 65 years of age, inclusive at the time of signing the informed consent.
* Severity of disease: Subjects who meet the below criteria and who may also have vasomotor rhinitis are eligible for the study. A positive skin test to perennial (for example, but not limited to, animal dander, house dust mites, cockroach, mould) and / or seasonal (for example, but not limited to, grass, tree, weed, ragweed) allergen within 12 months prior to Screening. If a subject has not been tested in the 12 months prior to Screening, a positive skin test (by prick method) is required at Screening. A positive skin test is defined as a wheal \>=3 millimeters (mm) larger than the diluent control for prick testing. In vitro tests for specific Immunoglobulin E (IgE) \[such as radioallergosorbent test (RAST), paper radioimmunosorbent test (PRIST)\] will not be allowed as a diagnosis of AR.
* A female subject is eligible to participate if she is not pregnant \[as confirmed by a negative urine (preferred) or serum human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) test\], not lactating, and at least one of the following conditions applies: (a) Non-reproductive potential defined as premenopausal females with a documented tubal ligation or documented hysteroscopic tubal occlusion procedure with follow-up confirmation of bilateral tubal occlusion or hysterectomy or documented bilateral oophorectomy; or postmenopausal defined as 12 months of spontaneous amenorrhea. Females on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and whose menopausal status is in doubt will be required to use one of the highly effective contraception methods if they wish to continue their HRT during the study. Otherwise, they must discontinue HRT to allow confirmation of post-menopausal status prior to study enrolment. (b) Reproductive potential and agrees to follow one of the options listed below in the GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) modified list of highly effective methods for avoiding pregn

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to provide information on whether subjects with allergic rhinitis (AR) prefer the administration of fluticasone furoate (FF) nasal spray or mometasone furoate (MF) nasal spray based on how the products feel to the subjects when administered.

This Phase IV interventional study is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, single-dose, cross-over subject preference study to evaluate and compare patient preference for FF \[(total dose of 110 microgram (mcg)\] and MF (total dose of 200 mcg) nasal sprays in subjects with allergic rhinitis. These two commonly used nasal sprays use different actuation systems (FF nasal spray is side-actuated; MF nasal spray is top-actuated) and this study will evaluate whether this difference is reflected in the patient-assessed attributes of the two nasal sprays. The attributes or properties which are being assessed by the subjects for these nasal sprays include smell, taste \& aftertaste, drip down the throat, run out of the nose, urge to sneeze, and irritation.

The single-day study per subject comprises screening and all treatments and procedures. Eligible subjects will be randomized 1:1 to a cross-over treatment schedule so that all subjects receive both products. One group of subjects will have two sprays of FF administered in each nostril whilst a second group will have two sprays of MF administered into each nostril. At 30 (± 5) minutes after the first study medication treatment, the two groups will switch. The first group will then have two sprays of MF administered into each nostril and the second group will then have two sprays of FF administered into each nostril. After each treatment the subject will complete two sets of attributes questionnaires ('immediate' and 'delayed'). A subject-rated 'immediate' attributes questionnaire will be completed immediately following each treatment and a subject-rated 'delayed' attributes questionnaire will be completed approximately 2 minutes after each treatment. Upon completion of the second set of these two attributes questionnaires (immediate and delayed), a preference questionnaire will be completed by the subject. In the preference questionnaire, the subject states their preferred treatment, if any, for each of the product attributes, and finally states their overall preferred treatment, if any.

There will be follow-up contact with the subject 24 (± 4) and 96 (± 4) hours after administration of the last treatment. The study is planned to enroll about 300 subjects.