STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00675090
Brief Title: Bridging Study With GSK239512 In Patients With Mild To Moderate Alzheimer's Disease
Official Title: A Single Blind, Placebo-controlled, Randomised Study in Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's Disease Patients to Assess the Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of GSK239512, a Selective Histamine H3 Receptor Antagonist
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2008-02-21
Completion Date: 2009-06-16

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE1
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: SINGLE_GROUP
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 28

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: GSK239512
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: GSK239512 oral tablets
  Arm 2: Placebo
    Type: PLACEBO_COMPARATOR
    Description: Placebo to match tablets

INTERVENTIONS
  1. GSK239512 (DRUG)
     Description: GSK239512 oral tablets once a day
  2. Placebo (DRUG)
     Description: Placebo tablets to match once a day

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Safety and tolerability as measured by adverse events, vital signs clinical laboratory measurements and validated clinical assessment scales.
     Time Frame: Days 8, 15, 22 and 29
     Description: N/A

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Pharmacodynamics measured by computerized cognitive tests and validated clinical rating scales. Also investigating the Pharmacokineticsat trough concentrations (Cmin) after GSK239512 repeat dosing on days 8, 15, 22 and 29 and 15.
     Time Frame: days 8, 15, 22 and 29

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 50 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Male or female subjects with a clinical diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease
* The subject has an MMSE score at screening of 12 to 26 for Part A and 16-26 for Part B.
* Age ≥ 50 and above.
* If female, the subject must be post-menopausal (i.e. 12 months without menstrual period) or surgically sterile.
* Male subjects must be willing to abstain from sexual intercourse with pregnant or lactating women; or be willing to use a condom/spermicide in addition to having their female partner use another form of contraception if the woman could become pregnant, from the time of the first dose of GSK239512 until 84 days following completion of the study.
* The subject has the ability to comply with the study procedures.
* The subject has a permanent caregiver and is willing to attend all study visits for Parts A and B.
* The subject has provided full written informed consent prior to the performance of any protocol specific procedure, or if unable to provide informed consent due to cognitive status, full written informed consent on behalf of the subject has been provided by a legally acceptable representative.
* The caregiver has provided his / her written consent prior to the performance of any protocol specific procedure.

Exclusion Criteria:

* In the opinion of the investigator, following review of CT/MRI scans in the past 12 months and completion of neurological review there could be other probable causes of dementia
* History of significant psychiatric illness such as schizophrenia or bipolar affective disorder that in the opinion of the Investigator would interfere with participation in the study, or current depression (a score of ≥8 on the Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia), or subjects with other psychiatric features in their AD which would in the opinion of the investigator, would increase risk to safety.
* History of significant sleep disturbance, for example, when it is associated with nocturnal wandering, nocturnal confusion / disorientation / agitation, which in the opinion of the investigator, may increase safety risk.
* History or presence of known or suspected seizures, unexplained significant loss of consciousness within last 6 months. Subjects who had febrile seizures in childhood may be included if these ceased by age 10 and they have had no other type of seizure in their medical history and have not been on anti-epileptic medications.
* History or presence of significant cardiovascular, gastro-intestinal, hepatic, or renal disease or other condition known to interfere with the absorption, distribution, metabolism, or excretion of drugs, or any other clinically relevant abnormality, medical or psychiatric condition, which, in the opinion of the Investigator, makes the subject unsuitable for inclusion in the study.
* History of alcohol or other substance abuse, according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders - Substance related disorders (DSM-IV) criteria.
* Clinically significant 

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
This is a safety and tolerability study to investigate the effect of GSK239512 on mild to moderate Alzheimers disease patients. The dose of GSK239512 will be titrated to reach the most well tolerated dose in the patients.