STUDY: A Phase III, 24 Week, Randomized, Double Blind, Double Dummy, Parallel Group Study (With an Extension to 52 Weeks in a Subset of Subjects) Comparing the Efficacy, Safety and Tolerability of the Fixed Dose Triple Combination FF/UMEC/VI Administered Once Daily in the Morning Via a Dry Powder Inhaler With Budesonide/Formoterol 400mcg/12mcg Administered Twice-Daily Via a Reservoir Inhaler in Subjects With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
NCT ID: NCT02345161
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE3
Design: PARALLEL
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 1811

Arm: FF/UMEC/VI (100 mcg/62.5 mcg/25 mcg) (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Budesonide/formoterol (400 mcg/12 mcg) (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: Triple FF/UMEC/VI
Intervention: Placebo to match FF/UMEC/VI
Intervention: Budesonide/Formoterol
Intervention: Placebo to match Budesonide/Formoterol combination

PRIMARY: Change From Baseline in Trough Forced Expiratory Volume in One Second (FEV1) at Week 24
  Time: Baseline to Week 24
  Desc: FEV1 is a measure of lung function and is defined as the maximal amount of air that can be forcefully exhaled in one second. Trough FEV1 at Week 24 was defined as the FEV1 values obtained prior to morning dose of the study treatment. Baseline was defined as the value obtained predose (0 minutes) on Day 1. Change from Baseline was calculated as the pre-dose measurement at Week 24 minus the Baseline
PRIMARY: Change From Baseline in Trough Forced Expiratory Volume in One Second (FEV1) at Week 52
  Time: Baseline to Week 52
  Desc: FEV1 is a measure of lung function and is defined as the maximal amount of air that can be forcefully exhaled in one second. Trough FEV1 at Week 52 was defined as the FEV1 values obtained prior to morning dose of the study treatment. Baseline was defined as the value obtained predose (0 minutes) on Day 1. Change from Baseline was calculated as the pre-dose measurement at Week 24 minus the Baseline
PRIMARY: Change From Baseline in St George's Respiratory Questionnaire-Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD; SGRQ) Total Score for COPD Participants at Week 24
  Time: Baseline to Week 24
  Desc: The SGRQ-C is a disease-specific questionnaire designed to measure the impact of respiratory disease and its treatment on a COPD participant's health-related quality of life (HRQoL). SGRQ-C total score was converted to SGRQ total score (ranging from 0-100) according to manual. In addition to an overall summary (total) score, scores for the individual domains of Symptoms, Activity, and Impacts (eac

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Informed Consent: A signed and dated written informed consent prior to study participation.
* Type of subject: Outpatient.
* Age: Subjects 40 years of age or older at Screening (Visit 1).
* Gender: Male or female subjects. A female is eligible to enter and participate in the study if she is of: Non-child bearing potential (i.e. physiologically incapable of becoming pregnant, including any female who is post-menopausal or surgically sterile). Surgically sterile females are defined as those with a documented hysterectomy and/or bilateral oophorectomy or tubal ligation. Post-menopausal females are defined as being amenorrhoeic for greater than 1 year with an appropriate clinical profile, e.g. age appropriate, \>45 years, in the absence of hormone replacement therapy. OR Child bearing potential, has a negative pregnancy test at screening, and agrees to one of the following acceptable contraceptive methods used consistently and correctly (i.e. in accordance with the approved product label and the instructions of the physician for the duration of the study - screening to safety follow-up contact): Abstinence, Oral Contraceptive, either combined or progestogen alone, Injectable progestogen, Implants of levonorgestrel, Estrogenic vaginal ring, Percutaneous contraceptive patches, Intrauterine device (IUD) or intrauterine system (IUS), Male partner sterilization (vasectomy with documentation of azoospermia) prior to the female subject's entry into the study, and this male is the sole partner for that subject. For this definition, "documented" refers to the outcome of the investigator's/designee's medical examination of the subject or review of the subject's medical history for study eligibility, as obtained via a verbal interview with the subject or from the subject's medical records.; Double barrier method: condom and an occlusive cap (diaphragm or cervical/vault caps) with a vaginal spermicidal agent (foam/gel/film/cream/suppository)
* COPD Diagnosis:

SUMMARY:
This is a phase IIIa, randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel group multicenter study evaluating once daily FF/UMEC/VI (100 microgram \[mcg\]/62.5 mcg/25 mcg) inhalation powder versus twice daily budesonide/formoterol (400 mcg/12 mcg). The primary purpose of this study is to demonstrate improvements in lung function and health status for subjects treated with FF/UMEC/VI compared with budesonide/formoterol for 24 weeks. Once-daily 'closed' triple therapy of a Inhaled Corticosteroid/ Long-acting Muscarinic Receptor Antagonists/ Long Acting Beta-Agonist (ICS/LAMA/LABA) combination FF/UMEC/VI (100 mcg/62.5 mcg/25 mcg) in a single device is being developed with the aim of providing a new treatment option for the management of advanced (GOLD Group D) COPD which will reduce the exacerbation frequency, allow for a reduced burden of polypharmacy, convenience, and increase the potential for improvement in lung function, Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) and symptom control over established dual/monotherapies.

Subjects meeting all inclusion/exclusion criteria and who have successfully completed all protocol procedures at the Screening Visit will enter the two-week run-in period. Following the run-in period, eligible subjects will be randomised (1:1) to one of the following double-blind treatment groups: FF/UMEC/VI 100 mcg/62.5 mcg/25 mcg via the ELLIPTA™ dry powder inhaler (DPI) once daily in the morning and placebo via reservoir inhaler twice daily OR Budesonide/formoterol 400 mcg/12 mcg via reservoir inhaler twice daily and placebo via the ELLIPTA DPI once daily in the morning.

The target enrollment is 1800 randomised subjects at approximately 200 study centers globally. The total duration of subject participation will be approximately 27 weeks, consisting of a 2-week run-in period, 24-week treatment period and a 1-week follow-up period. Subjects will run-in on their existing COPD medications for 2 weeks and in addition will be provided with short acting albuterol/salbutamol to be used on an as-needed basis (rescue medication) throughout the study. Subjects will discontinue all existing COPD medications during the randomised treatment period but may continue their study supplied rescue albuterol/salbutamol. A sub-set of approximately 400 subjects will remain on blinded study treatment for up to a total of 52 weeks to provide additional long term safety data.

ELLIPTA and NUBULES are a trade marks of the GlaxoSmithKline Group of Companies. Other company or product names mentioned herein may be the property of their respective owners