STUDY: A Randomised Placebo-controlled Study to Evaluate the Effects of GSK2256294 Following Repeat Dosing on Pulmonary Artery Pressure in Healthy Volunteers Under Normoxic and Hypoxic Conditions
NCT ID: NCT02262689
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE1
Design: PARALLEL
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 30

Arm: GSK2256294 15 mg (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Placebo (PLACEBO_COMPARATOR)
Intervention: GSK2256294
Intervention: Placebo

PRIMARY: Change from baseline of PASP under hypoxic conditions
  Time: Day 1 and Day 7
  Desc: PASP is an indicator of cardiac hemodynamic status and is non-invasively estimated by echocardiography. Change from baseline in PASP under hypoxic conditions following 7 days of GSK2256294 15 milligrams (mg) once daily. Change from baseline was calculated as the Day 7 value minus the Day1 value.

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* AGE: Between 18 and 65 years of age inclusive, at the time of signing the informed consent
* Screening echocardiogram of at least good quality, without clinically significant abnormalities, and with mild-moderate tricuspid regurgitation sufficient for the reliable estimation of PASP, as determined by the echocardiography core laboratory or responsible cardiologist.
* Screening PASP within the normal range according to site standards
* Healthy as determined by the investigator or medically qualified designee based on a medical evaluation including medical history, physical examination, laboratory tests and cardiac monitoring.
* A subject with a clinical abnormality or laboratory parameter(s) which is/are not specifically listed in the inclusion or exclusion criteria, outside the reference range for the population being studied may be included only if the investigator \[in consultation with the Medical Monitor if required\] agree and document that the finding is unlikely to introduce additional risk factors and will not interfere with the study procedures.
* Body weight \>= 60 kilogram and body mass index within the range 19 - 35 kilogram per square meter (inclusive)
* Female subject is eligible to participate if she is of non-reproductive potential defined as: Pre-menopausal females with one of the following: documented tubal ligation, documented hysteroscopic tubal occlusion procedure with follow-up confirmation of bilateral tubal occlusion, hysterectomy, and documented bilateral oophorectomy. Postmenopausal criteria is defined as 12 months of spontaneous amenorrhea \[in questionable cases a blood sample with simultaneous follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and estradiol levels consistent with menopause (refer to laboratory reference ranges for confirmatory levels)\]; females on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) must discontinue their HRT before the start of the study; for those whose menopausal status is in doubt, they will be required to use 

SUMMARY:
The study evaluates the effect of GSK2256294 exposure at steady state on pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP) in healthy volunteers, under hypoxic conditions, after 7 days of dosing. It is single centre, double blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study to be conducted in approximately 30 healthy volunteers. Subjects will be screened no more than 30 days. Subject will be admitted in clinical unit on Day -1. Subject will be dosed for 7 days in unit in morning on all days except for dosing on Days 3 -6. Dosing on Days 3 -6 will occur at home. Subjects will return to the unit on the evening of Day 6 and remain there until Day 8. Subjects will undergo echocardiography under normoxic and hypoxic on Day 1 pre-dose and on Day 7 post-dose. Subject will be followed up for 28- 32 days after discharge. The maximum estimated time that a subject will be enrolled in the study is 62 days from the screening visit to follow up.