STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00345579
Brief Title: Safety of Hib-MenCY-TT Vaccine Versus Licensed Hib Conjugate Vaccine, Given at 2, 4, 6 and 12 to 15 Months of Age
Official Title: A Single-blind, Randomized, Controlled, Multinational Study for the Evaluation of Safety of GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) Biologicals' Investigational Vaccination Regimen Compared to Monovalent Haemophilus Influenzae Type b (Hib) Control Vaccine in Healthy Infants at 2, 4, 6, and 12 to 15 Months of Age.
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2006-09
Completion Date: 2008-03

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE3
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: PREVENTION
Masking: SINGLE
Enrollment: 4432

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Menhibrix Group
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Subjects received 3 doses of Menhibrix vaccine (at 2, 4 and 6 months of age, study Months 0, 2 and 4), co-administered with Pediarix/Infanrix penta as a primary vaccination course and a fourth dose of Menhibrix vaccine at 12-15 months of age in the study NCT00345683. Menhibrix was administered intramuscularly in the upper right thigh and co-administered Pediarix/Infanrix penta vaccine was injected intramuscularly in the upper left thigh.
  Arm 2: ActHIB Group
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: Subjects received 3 doses of ActHIB vaccine (at 2, 4 and 6 months of age, study Months 0, 2 and 4), co-administered with Pediarix/Infanrix penta as a primary vaccination course and 1 dose of PedvaxHib vaccine as a booster at 12-15 months of age in the study NCT00345683. ActHIB and PedvaxHib vaccines were administered intramuscularly in the upper right thigh and co-administered Pediarix/Infanrix penta vaccine was injected intramuscularly in the upper left thigh.

INTERVENTIONS
  1. GSK Biologicals' Haemophilus influenzae type b and Neisseria meningitidis serogroups C and Y-tetanus toxoid conjugate vaccine combined 792014 (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: 3-dose intramuscular injection
  2. ActHIB (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: 3-dose intramuscular injection
  3. Pediarix/Infanrix Penta (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: 3-dose intramuscular injection

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of Subjects Reporting Serious Adverse Events (SAEs)
     Time Frame: From Dose 1 up to Day 30 after Dose 3 (from study Month 0 up to study Month 5)
     Description: SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that results in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subjects.
  2. Number of Subjects Reporting New Onset of Chronic Illnesses (NOCIs)
     Time Frame: From Dose 1 up to Day 30 after Dose 3 (from study Month 0 up to study Month 5)
     Description: NOCIs include autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, allergies.
  3. Number of Subjects Reporting Rash
     Time Frame: From Dose 1 up to Day 30 after Dose 3 (from study Month 0 up to study Month 5)
     Description: Rash assessed was hives, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, petechiae.
  4. Number of Subjects Reporting Adverse Events Resulting in Emergency Room (ER)
     Time Frame: From Dose 1 up to Day 30 after Dose 3 (from study Month 0 up to study Month 5)
     Description: N/A
  5. Number of Subjects With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs)
     Time Frame: From Dose 1 through but excluding the fourth dose (from study Month 0 up to the booster vaccination at 12-15 months of age)
     Description: SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that results in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subjects.
  6. Number of Subjects With New Onset of Chronic Illnesses (NOCIs)
     Time Frame: From Dose 1 through but excluding the fourth dose (from study Month 0 up to the booster vaccination at 12-15 months of age)
     Description: NOCIs include autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, allergies.
  7. Number of Subjects With Rash
     Time Frame: From Dose 1 through but excluding the fourth dose (from study Month 0 up to the booster vaccination at 12-15 months of age)
     Description: Rash assessed was hives, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, petechiae
  8. Number of Subjects With Adverse Events Resulting in Emergency Room (ER)
     Time Frame: From Dose 1 through but excluding the fourth dose (from study Month 0 up to the booster vaccination at 12-15 months of age)
     Description: N/A

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 6 Weeks
Maximum Age: 12 Weeks
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Subjects for whom the investigator believes that parents/guardians can and will comply with the requirements of the protocol.
* A male or female between, and including, 6 and 12 weeks of age at the time of the first vaccination.
* Written informed consent obtained from the parent or guardian of the subject.
* Healthy subjects as established by medical history and clinical examination before entering into the study.
* Born after 36 weeks gestation.
* Infants who have not received a previous dose of hepatitis B vaccine or those who have received only 1 dose of hepatitis B vaccine administered at least 30 days prior to enrolment.
* Infants may have received a birth dose of Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine.

Exclusion criteria:

Use of any investigational or non-registered product (drug or vaccine) other than the study vaccine(s) within 30 days preceding the first dose of study vaccine, or planned use during the study period.

* Chronic administration (defined as more than 14 days) of immunosuppressants or other immune-modifying drugs since birth.
* Planned administration/ administration of a vaccine not foreseen by the study protocol within 30 days of the first dose of study vaccine(s).
* Previous vaccination against Neisseria meningitidis, Haemophilus influenzae type b, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, and/or poliovirus; more than one previous dose of hepatitis B vaccine.
* In country(ies) where Prevnar will be provided by GSK Biologicals, previous vaccination with Prevnar.
* History of Neisseria meningitidis, Haemophilus influenzae type b, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, and/or poliovirus disease.
* Any confirmed or suspected immunosuppressive or immunodeficient condition based on medical history and physical examination.
* History of allergic disease or reactions likely to be exacerbated by any component of the vaccines, including dry natural latex rubber.
* Major congenital defects or serious chronic illness.
* History of any neurologic disorders or seizures.
* Acute disease at time of enrollment.
* Administration of immunoglobulins and/or any blood products since birth or planned administration during the study period.
* Concurrent participation in another clinical study, at any time during the study period, in which the subject has been or will be exposed to an investigational or a non-investigational product (pharmaceutical product or device).

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
The primary phase of this study is evaluating the safety of Hib-MenCY-TT vaccine compared to a control group receiving licensed Hib conjugate vaccine, when each are co-administered with Pediarix® to healthy infants at 2, 4, and 6 months of age.

This protocol posting deals with objectives \& outcome measures of the primary phase of the study. The objectives \& outcome measures of the Booster phase are presented in a separate protocol posting (NCT number = 00345683).

The Protocol Posting has been updated in order to comply with the FDA Amendment Act, Sep 2007

Detailed Description:
Pediarix/Infanrix Penta and Prevnar should be co-administered to all subjects in all study groups according to a 2, 4, and 6 month schedule concomitantly with study vaccines.