STUDY: Skin Irritation Study of GSK2894512 Cream-An Evaluator-Blinded Study to Evaluate the Skin Irritation of GSK2894512 Cream and Placebo Following Single Application by Simple-Patch Test and Photo-Patch Test, and Repeat Application Under Non-occlusive Condition in Healthy Japanese Subjects
NCT ID: NCT02637206
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE1
Design: SINGLE_GROUP
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 26

Arm: Part 1 (Single Application) (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Part 2 (Repeat Application) (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: GSK2894512 Cream
Intervention: Vehicle Cream
Intervention: Empty Patch

PRIMARY: Part 1-Positive rate of skin irritability as assessed by simple-patch test following single application of GSK2894512 cream
  Time: Up to Day 4
  Desc: Each test site for the simple-patch test will be evaluated at 30 minutes (min) and 24 hours (hrs) after removal of medication (48.5 hr and 72 hrs after application, respectively) based on the following criteria proposed by the patch test study group in Japan: no reaction (-); weak erythema (+-); erythema (+); erythema + edema (++); erythema + edema + papules, or vesicles (+++); bullae (++++). Exce
PRIMARY: Part 1-Positive rate of photo-urticaria reaction as assessed by photo patch test following single application of GSK2894512 cream
  Time: Day 2
  Desc: For the photo-patch test, 4 test patches (right back) will be removed 24 hrs after application and the test sites will be exposed to 6.0 joule per square centimeter of ultraviolet A. Each test site will be evaluated at 30 minutes from the irradiation to determine whether there is photo-urticaria or not (i.e positive or negative).
PRIMARY: Part 1-Positive rate of photo-toxicity as assessed by photo patch test following single application of GSK2894512 cream
  Time: Up to Day 4
  Desc: Post photo-urticaria evaluation, the test sites will be re-covered with empty patches, that will be removed at 24 hrs after removal of medication. The test sites will be evaluated at 30 min and 24 hrs after empty patches removal (48.5 and 72 hrs after application, respectively). Assessment Criteria includes: no reaction or similar to the non irradiation site (-); Slightly stronger than the non irr

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Japanese males and females aged between 20 and 64 years of age inclusive, at the time of signing the informed consent.
* Healthy as determined by a responsible and experienced physician, based on a medical evaluation including medical history, physical examination, laboratory tests and 12-lead ECG. A subject with a clinical abnormality or laboratory parameter(s) which is/are not specifically listed in the inclusion or exclusion criteria, outside the reference range for the population being studied may be included only if the Investigator in consultation with the GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) Medical Monitor if required agree and document that the finding is unlikely to introduce additional risk factors and will not interfere with the study procedures.
* Healthy skin in the potential test site on the back such that erythema and other dermal reactions can be easily visualized.
* Body Mass Index within the range 18.5 - 24.9 kilogram per square meter (kg/m\^2,inclusive) and less than 25.0 kg/m\^2.
* A female subject is eligible to participate if she is of: Non-childbearing potential defined as pre-menopausal females with a documented tubal ligation or hysterectomy; or postmenopausal defined as 12 months of spontaneous amenorrhea with simultaneous follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) \> 40 milli-international units per milliliter and estradiol \< 40 picograms per milliliter (\<147 picomole per liter).
* Capable of giving written informed consent, which includes compliance with the requirements and restrictions listed in the consent form
* Alanine aminotransferase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin \<= 1.5x upper limit of normal (ULN) (isolated bilirubin \>1.5xULN is acceptable if bilirubin is fractionated and direct bilirubin \<35%).
* Based on single QTc values: QT interval corrected for heart rate according to Fridericia's formula (QTcF) \< 450 milliseconds; QTcF \< 480 msec in subjects with Bundle Branch Block.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Current or ch

SUMMARY:
GSK2894512 is a novel anti-inflammatory agent that is currently under development for the topical treatment of atopic dermatitis and chronic plaque psoriasis. This study will be a Phase I, single-center, randomized, partial-blinded (evaluator blinded) study which consists of two parts (Part 1 and 2). Part 1 of this study will assess skin irritation following a single application of GSK2894512 cream at 2 concentrations (e.g. 0.5% and 1%) and placebo by simple-patch test and photo-patch test under semi-occlusive conditions in 20 healthy Japanese volunteers. Part 2 of this study will assess skin irritation following repeat application at 0.5% and 1% of GSK2894512 cream and placebo for 7 days under non-occlusive condition in 6 healthy Japanese volunteers. The study will have Screening visit which will occur within 30 days from the Day 1 visit of each part. Eligible subjects will be able to participate either of Part 1 or Part 2. Subjects will visit the site on Day -1, and hospitalized until the end of all assessments on Day 4 (Part 1) or Day 7 (Part 2). Subjects will re-visit the site on Day 8 (Part 1) or Day 15 (Part 2) for follow-up assessments. This study will be the first to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of GSK2894512 cream after single and repeat application in Japanese subjects. Results from this study will enable further clinical investigation in the Japanese population.