STUDY: Motor Imagery to Facilitate Sensorimotor Relearning (MOTIFS) After ACL Injury: A Randomized Controlled Trial
NCT ID: NCT03473821
Sponsor: Lund University

Phase: NA
Design: PARALLEL
Masking: SINGLE
Enrollment: 106

Arm: Neuromuscular Training (NO_INTERVENTION)
Arm: MOTIFS (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: MOTIFS

PRIMARY: Side Hop
  Time: 12 weeks
  Desc: Change in hop performance on the injured leg from baseline to 12 weeks, expressed in number of hops completed
PRIMARY: Anterior Cruciate Ligament Return to Sport After Injury Scale
  Time: 12 months
  Desc: 12 question self-reported outcome scale measuring readiness to return to sport. Scale ranges from 0-10 for each question. Scores summed from 0 (worst) - 100 (best).

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Men and women
* Over the age of 16
* Traumatic knee injury with or without surgical intervention, and involving one or more knee structures
* Currently undergoing physical therapist-supervised rehabilitation and have reached the stage in rehabilitation which includes single-leg hop training (i.e. able to complete a side hop and a single-leg hop for distance)
* Active before the injury in recreational or competitive physical activity, with a goal of returning to physical activity

Exclusion Criteria:

* Any degenerative knee disorder, or other disease or disorder overriding the knee injury (e.g. spine disorder, neurological disease)
* Have reached end-stage rehabilitation (i.e. have undergone return to activity evaluation by their physical therapist) or is estimated to return less than 12 weeks from inclusion date
* Do not understand the languages of interest (Swedish, Danish, Norwegian), or English

SUMMARY:
Anterior cruciate ligament injury is a common issue in sports involving cutting and jumping. Treatment may include surgical intervention followed by physical therapy, or no surgical intervention with the main treatment being physical therapy. Despite meeting physical therapist requirements for return to sport, many athletes do not return to sport. This discrepancy in the physical requirements for returning to physical activity and actually returning to the same physical activity level leads to the question of whether current rehabilitation treatments may be improved upon.

One potential method is by integrating mental training into physical rehabilitation. By using mental training and increasing the meaning and relevance of rehabilitation, a person may be preparing more effectively for return to the pace and intensity common during physical activity.

In this study, the investigators aim to create and evaluate a model of training which incorporates physical activity-related movement and mental training in order to more effectively prepare people for return to physical activity after anterior cruciate ligament injury. This will be measured by examining functional hop measures, as well as patient-reported outcomes.