STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT01827839
Brief Title: Immunogenicity and Safety of GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) Biologicals' Herpes Zoster Subunit (HZ/su) Vaccine GSK1437173A in Adults With a Prior Episode of Herpes Zoster
Official Title: Immunogenicity and Safety of GSK Biologicals' Herpes Zoster Vaccine GSK1437173A in Adults With a Prior Episode of Herpes Zoster
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2013-06-10
Completion Date: 2014-11-25

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE3
Allocation: NA
Intervention Model: SINGLE_GROUP
Primary Purpose: PREVENTION
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 96

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: HZ Group
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Subjects will receive 2 doses of the HZ/su vaccine at Month 0 and Month 2.

INTERVENTIONS
  1. Herpes Zoster vaccine (GSK1437173A) (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: 2 doses administered intramuscularly in deltoid region of non-dominant arm.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of Vaccine Responders for Anti-gE Antibodies as Determined by ELISA
     Time Frame: At Month 3
     Description: Vaccine response was defined as:

For initially seronegative subjects, antibody concentration at post-vaccination ≥ 4 fold the cut-off for anti-gE \[4x97 milli-international units per milliliter (mIU/mL)\]; For initially seropositive subjects, antibody concentration at post-vaccination ≥ 4 fold the pre-vaccination antibody concentration.
  2. Number of Subjects With Any and Grade 3 Solicited Local Symptoms
     Time Frame: Within 7 days (Day 0-6) after each vaccine dose and across doses
     Description: Assessed solicited local symptoms were pain, redness and swelling. Any = occurrence of the symptom regardless of intensity grade. Grade 3 pain = pain that prevented normal activity. Grade 3 redness/swelling = redness/swelling spreading beyond 100 millimeters (mm) of injection site.
  3. Number of Days With Solicited Local Symptoms
     Time Frame: Within 7 days (Day 0-6) after each vaccine dose
     Description: The number of days with any local symptoms during the solicited post-vaccination period.
  4. Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Solicited General Symptoms
     Time Frame: Within 7 days (Day 0-6) after each vaccine dose and across doses
     Description: Assessed solicited general symptoms were fatigue, gastrointestinal (nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and/or abdominal pain), headache, myalgia, shivering and temperature \[defined as oral temperature equal to or above 37.5 degrees Celsius (°C)\]. Any = occurrence of the symptom regardless of intensity grade. Grade 3 symptom = symptom that prevented normal activity. Grade 3 temperature = temperature \> 39.0 °C. Related = symptom assessed by the investigator as related to the vaccination.
  5. Number of Days With Solicited General Symptoms
     Time Frame: Within 7 days (Day 0-6) after each vaccine dose
     Description: The number of days with general symptoms during the solicited post-vaccination period.
  6. Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Unsolicited Adverse Events (AEs)
     Time Frame: Within 30 days (Days 0-29) after each vaccination
     Description: An unsolicited AE covers any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation subject temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product and reported in addition to those solicited during the clinical study and any solicited symptom with onset outside the specified period of follow-up for solicited symptoms. Any was defined as the occurrence of any unsolicited AE regardless of intensity grade or relation to vaccination. Grade 3 AE = an AE which prevented normal, everyday activities. Related = AE assessed by the investigator as related to the vaccination.
  7. Number of Subjects With Any Serious Adverse Events (SAEs)
     Time Frame: From first vaccination up to 30 days post last vaccination
     Description: Serious adverse events (SAEs) assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life-threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization or result in disability/incapacity.
  8. Number of Subjects With Any Potential Immune-mediated Diseases (pIMDs)
     Time Frame: From first vaccination up to 30 days post last vaccination
     Description: Potential immune-mediated diseases (pIMDs) are a subset of AEs that include autoimmune diseases and other inflammatory and/or neurologic disorders of interest which may or may not have an autoimmune aetiology.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Anti-gE Antibody Concentrations
     Time Frame: At Month 0 and at Month 3
  2. Number of Subjects With Anti-gE Antibody Concentrations Equal to or Above the Cut-off Value
     Time Frame: At Month 0 and at Month 3
  3. Number of Subjects With SAEs
     Time Frame: Starting after 30 days post last vaccination until study end (i.e. Month 14)
  4. Number of Subjects With Any Potential Immune-mediated Diseases (pIMDs)
     Time Frame: Starting after 30 days post last vaccination until study end (i.e. Month 14)

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 50 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Subjects with a physician-documented history of HZ.
* Subjects who, in the opinion of the investigator, can and will comply with the requirements of the protocol.
* A male or female aged 50 years or older at the time of the first vaccination.
* Written informed consent obtained from the subject.
* Female subjects of non-childbearing potential may be enrolled in the study.

  * Non-childbearing potential is defined as pre-menarche, current tubal ligation, hysterectomy, ovariectomy or post-menopause.
* Female subjects of childbearing potential may be enrolled in the study, if the subject:

  * has practiced adequate contraception for 30 days prior to vaccination, and
  * has a negative pregnancy test on the day of vaccination, and
  * has agreed to continue adequate contraception during the entire treatment period and for 2 months after completion of the vaccination series.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Active Herpes Zoster infection (a case is considered no more active when all lesions have at least turned to crusts).
* Use of any investigational or non-registered product other than the study vaccine/product within 30 days preceding the first dose of study vaccine/product, or planned use during the study period.
* Chronic administration (defined as \> 14 consecutive days) of immunosuppressants or other immune-modifying drugs within six months prior to the first vaccine dose. For corticosteroids, a prednisone dose of \<20 mg/day, or equivalent, is allowed. Inhaled, topical and intra-articular corticosteroids are allowed.
* Administration of long-acting immune-modifying drugs within six months prior to the first vaccine dose or expected administration at any time during the study period.
* Administration or planned administration of a live vaccine in the period starting 30 days before the first dose of study vaccine and ending 30 days after the last dose of study vaccine, or, administration or planned administration of a non-replicating vaccine within 8 days prior to or within 14 days after either dose of study vaccine.
* Concurrently participating in another clinical study, at any time during the study period, in which the subject has been or will be exposed to an investigational or a non-investigational vaccine/product.
* Previous vaccination against VZV or HZ and/or planned administration during the study of an HZ vaccine other than the study vaccine.
* Any confirmed or suspected immunosuppressive or immunodeficient condition resulting from disease or immunosuppressive/cytotoxic therapy.
* History of any reaction or hypersensitivity likely to be exacerbated by any component of the vaccine/product.
* Acute disease and/or fever at the time of enrolment.

  * Fever is defined as temperature ≥ 37.5°C /99.5°F for oral, axillary or tympanic route, or ≥ 38.0°C /100.4°F on rectal route. The preferred route for recording temperature in this study will be oral.
  * Subjects with a minor illness (such as mild diarrhoea, mild upper respirato

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of GSK Biologicals' HZ/su vaccine in subjects' ≥ 50 years of age (YOA) who previously have had Herpes Zoster (HZ). The data collected will be compared with the data from subjects without HZ in other HZ/su trials.