STUDY: An Open-label Study of Inhaler Device Attributes Investigating Critical and Overall Errors, Ease of Use, and Preference Between a Number of Inhaler Devices (ELLIPTA, TURBUHALER, HANDIHALER, BREEZHALER, MDI, and DISKUS/ACCUHALER) in Adult Subjects With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)
NCT ID: NCT02184624
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE4
Design: CROSSOVER
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 569

Arm: Sub-Study 1 (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Sub-Study 2 (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Sub-Study 3 (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Sub-Study 4 (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: ELLIPTA
Intervention: DISKUS/ACCUHALER
Intervention: MDI
Intervention: TURBUHALER

PRIMARY: Percentage of Participants Who Made at Least One Critical Error After Reading the Patient Information Leaflet
  Time: Day 1
  Desc: A critical error was defined as an error that was most likely to result in no or only minimal medication being inhaled. The errors considered as critical errors while handling the inhaler devices were failed to open cover, lever was not pushed back, shook the device after dose preparation, exhaled directly into mouthpiece, no seal by the lips round the mouthpiece during the inhalation. As per the 

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Informed consent: Subject must give their signed and dated written informed consent to participate in the study; Subject understands and is willing, able, and likely to comply with study procedures and restrictions; Subject must be able to read, comprehend, and record information in Dutch and/or English.
* Age: \>=40 years of age
* Gender: Male or female subjects.
* Primary diagnosis of COPD: subjects with a clinical history of COPD in accordance with the definition by the American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society. Comorbidities (rheumatoid arthritis or other locomotor problems, visual impairment, and depression or anxiety) will be documented as relevant to inhaler use.
* COPD treatment: All patients should be currently receiving treatment for COPD.
* Must be naïve to using ELLIPTA inhaler and at least one other inhaler device. Subjects who are naïve to the BREEZEHALER and HANDIHALER inhalers must be naïve to all other inhaler devices that requires a capsule.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Asthma: Subjects with a current diagnosis of asthma only. Note: Subjects with a prior history of asthma are eligible if they have a current diagnosis of COPD.
* Contraindications: A history of allergy or hypersensitivity to lactose/milk protein or magnesium stearate or to any other excipient.
* Subjects who are currently participating in another randomised pharmacological interventional trial.
* Inability to Read: In the opinion of the investigator, any subject who is unable to read and/or would not be able to complete a questionnaire and understand verbal instructions.

SUMMARY:
This is a randomised, open-label, placebo, crossover, multicentre study with a single visit. The study will comprise five sub-studies. Subjects will receive inactive treatment (placebo) via the ELLIPTA® inhaler and one of the other inhaler devices depending on the sub-study they are randomised to. Only subjects who are naïve to the ELLIPTA inhaler and to one of the other inhaler devices that will be used in this study will be included. Furthermore, subjects who are naïve to the BREEZEHALER® and HANDIHALER® inhalers must be naïve to all other inhaler devices that requires a capsule. The study will be conducted in the UK and the Netherlands, and comprises one visit only. A sufficient number of subjects (at least 600) with COPD will be screened and 570 will be randomised to one of five sub-studies. Eligible subjects will be allocated to one of the sub-studies depending on their experience of using the other inhaler (i.e., depending on which other inhaler they are naïve to).

This study is designed to assess the proportion of COPD subjects making critical and overall (i.e., critical and non-critical errors) errors in using ELLIPTA inhaler and other commercially available inhaler devices such as the TURBUHALER®, HANDIHALER, BREEZHALER, MDI and DISKUS®/ACCUHALER® inhalers. This study will also assess the 'ease of use' and preference between the ELLIPTA inhaler and the other commercially available inhaler devices.

ELLIPTA, DISKUS, and ACCUHALER are registered trademarks of the GSK group of companies. TURBUHALER is a registered trademark of AstraZeneca. HANDIHALER is a registered trademark of Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH \& Co. KG. BREEZHALER is a registered trademark of Novartis AG.