STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00996996
Brief Title: Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody (Tositumomab and Iodine I 131 Tositumomab) for Previously Untreated, Advanced-stage, Low Grade Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
Official Title: Phase II Trial of Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody for Previously Untreated, Advanced Stage, Low Grade Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE2
Enrollment: 77

Arm 1: open-label, single arm - EXPERIMENTAL

Primary 1: Number of Participants With Confirmed Response, Including Participants With Complete Response (CR), Clinical Complete Response (CCR), and Partial Response (PR)
  Time: From Study Day 0 (start of treatment) up to 12 years (long-term follow up)
Primary 2: Number of Participants With Response, Including Participants With Complete Response (CR), Clinical Complete Response (CCR), or Partial Response (PR)
  Time: From Study Day 0 (start of treatment) up to 12 years (long-term follow up)
Primary 3: Number of Participants With Confirmed Complete Response (CR, CCR, and CR+CCR) and Partial Response (PR)
  Time: From Study Day 0 (start of treatment) up to 12 years (long-term follow up)

ELIGIBILITY
Inclusion Criteria

* Patients must have a histologically confirmed diagnosis of lowgrade non-Hodgkin's B-cell lymphoma. The following low-grade histologies are included: small lymphocytic (with or without plasmacytoid differentiation); follicular, small cleaved; follicular, mixed small cleaved and follicular large cell (less than 50% large cell component); and monocytoid B-cell lymphoma.
* Patients must have evidence that their tumor tissue expresses the CD20 antigen. Immunoperoxidase stains of paraffin-embedded tissue showing positive reactivity with L26 antibody or immunoperoxidase stains of frozen tissue showing positive reactivity with Anti-B1 Antibody (Coulter Clone®) or similar commercially available CD20 antibody (\>50% of tumor cells are positive) or evidence of CD20 positivity by flow cytometry (\>50% of tumor cells are positive) are acceptable evidence of CD20 positivity. Testing of tumor tissue from any time in the course of the patient's disease is acceptable.
* Patients must have Ann Arbor stage III or IV extent of disease after complete staging.
* Patients must not have had any previous treatment for low-grade lymphoma including chemotherapy or radiation. They may be newly diagnosed or observed without treatment after diagnosis. Symptomatic and asymptomatic patients will be eligible.
* Patients must have a performance status of at least 60% on the Karnofsky Scale and an anticipated survival of at least 3 months.
* Patients must have an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) \>1500 cells/mm3 and a platelet count \>100,000 cells/mm3 within 14 days of study entry. These blood counts must be sustained without support of hematopoietic cytokines or transfusion of blood products.
* Patients must have adequate renal function (defined as serum creatinine \<1.5 x upper limit of normal \[ULN\]) and hepatic function (defined as total bilirubin \<1.5 x ULN and aspartate transaminase \[AST\] \<5 x ULN) within 14 days of study entry.
* Patients must have bi-dimensionally m

SUMMARY
This is a single-arm, single-institution, phase II study of Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody for patients with previously untreated, advanced-stage (stage III or IV) low-grade non-Hodgkin's B-cell lymphoma. A total of 75-80 patients will be enrolled.

Patients will undergo two phases of the study. In the first phase, termed the "dosimetric dose", patients will receive an infusion of unlabeled Anti-B1 Antibody (450 mg) over 70 minutes (including a 10-minute flush) immediately followed by a 30-minute infusion (including a 10-minute flush) of Anti-B1 Antibody (35 mg) which has been trace-labeled with 5 mCi of Iodine-131. Whole body gamma camera scans will be obtained 5 to 8 times between Days 0 and 7 following the dosimetric dose. Using the dosimetric data from 3 imaging timepoints (the imaging timepoints to be used in decreasing order of preference depending on availability of data are Days 0, 3, and 7; Days 0, 4, and 7; Days 0, 3 and 6; Days 0, 4, and 6; Days 0, 2, and 7; and Days 0, 2, and 6), a patient-specific dose of Iodine- 131 to deliver the desired total body dose of radiotherapy will be calculated. In the second phase, termed the "therapeutic dose", patients will receive a 70-minute infusion (including a 10-minute flush) of unlabeled Anti-B1 Antibody (450 mg) immediately followed by a 30-minute infusion (including a 10-minute flush) of Anti-B1 Antibody (35 mg) labeled with the patient-specific dose of Iodine-131 to deliver a whole body dose of 75 cGy. Patients who are obese will be dosed based upon 137% of their calculated lean body mass. Patients will be treated with either saturated solution potassium iodide (SSKI), Lugol's solution, or potassium iodide tablets starting at least 24 hours prior to the first infusion of the Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody (i.e., dosimetric dose) and continuing for 14 days following the last infusion of Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody (i.e., therapeutic dose).

The primary endpoint of the study is the determination of the response rate with Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody in previously untreated patients with low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). The secondary endpoints include duration of response, safety, radiation dosimetry, and the predictive value of detection of the presence or absence minimal residual disease by molecular techniques on response duration.