STUDY: An Open-Label Single-Arm Study to Evaluate the Reliability of an Autoinjector That Administers Belimumab Subcutaneously in Subjects With Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE)
NCT ID: NCT02124798
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE2
Design: SINGLE_GROUP
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 95

Arm: Single arm (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: Belimumab autoinjector

PRIMARY: Number of Participants Successfully Able to Self-administer Their Observed First and Second Doses in Weeks 1 and 2 (Inside Clinic)
  Time: Weeks 1 and 2 (Inside clinic)
  Desc: The primary objective was to assess the suitability of the auto injector for self-administration of belimumab. An overall assessment of usability and reliability for the device was determined by assessing the rate of successfully complete self-administered injections relative to attempted ones. The assessment for the parameter, drug successfully injected was elicited by a Yes/No response. The part

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Male or female aged at least 18 years at the time of signing the informed consent.
* Have a clinical diagnosis of SLE according to the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria.
* Active, autoantibody positive SLE, defined as the presence of anti nuclear antibody (ANA) or anti-double strand deoxyribonucleic acid (dsDNA) antibodies (at screening or historically).
* Are on a SLE treatment regimen including intravenous (IV) belimumab every 28 days for at least three 28-day cycles. Day 0 (i.e., day of first dose of study agent) should be scheduled about 2 weeks after the last dose IV dose of belimumab but may be scheduled 1 week and up to 4 weeks after the last IV dose.
* A female subject is eligible to participate if she is of: Non-childbearing potential defined as pre-menopausal females with a documented tubal ligation or hysterectomy (for this definition, "documented" refers to the outcome of the investigator's/designee's review of the subject's medical history for study eligibility, as obtained via a verbal interview with the subject or from the subject's medical records); or postmenopausal defined as 12 months of spontaneous amenorrhea (in questionable cases a blood sample with simultaneous follicle stimulating hormone \[FSH\] \>40 milli international unit/milliliter \[MIU/mL\] and estradiol \<40 picogram/mL \[\<147 picomoles/Liter\] is confirmatory). (Females on hormone replacement therapy \[HRT\] and whose menopausal status is in doubt will be required to use one of the contraception methods if they wish to continue their HRT during the study. Otherwise, they must discontinue HRT to allow confirmation of post-menopausal status prior to study enrollment. For most forms of HRT, at least 2 4 weeks will elapse between the cessation of therapy and the blood draw; this interval depends on the type and dosage of HRT. Following confirmation of their post-menopausal status, they can resume use of HRT during the study without use of a contracep

SUMMARY:
The primary objective of this study is to assess the suitability of the autoinjector for self-administration of belimumab by subjects with SLE in real-life conditions. The study will assess the use of the autoinjector inside the clinic setting and outside the clinic setting. The study will also assess the safety and tolerability of belimumab administered subcutaneously (SC) via the autoinjector. Subjects will self-administer belimumab SC into the thigh or abdomen using the autoinjector device for 8 weekly doses. Subjects will return for a follow-up visit 4 weeks after the last SC dose of belimumab. All injections will be assessed by the investigators for success based on direct observation and/or the subject diary. A total of 118 subjects (treated with at least one dose of study drug) are planned to be enrolled in this study.