STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00256854
Brief Title: Converting From Ropinirole Immediate Release (IR) To Ropinirole Controlled-Release for RLS (Restless Legs Syndrome)
Official Title: A 4-Week, Randomized, Double-Blind, Cohort Study to Evaluate the Safety and Tolerability of Converting From Ropinirole Immediate Release (IR) to Ropinirole Controlled Release for RLS (CR-RLS) Formulation (Formerly Ropinirole Extended Release [XR]) in Patients With Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS)
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2005-11-14
Completion Date: 2006-09-21

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE3
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: N/A
Enrollment: 135

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Ropinirole cohort A1: 1 mg IR/2 mg CR-RLS/1 mg IR/1 mg IR
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Participants received Placebo in the evening and Ropinirole 1 mg IR at bedtime on Week 1. At the end of Week 1, participants were switched to receive Ropinirole 2 mg controlled release for Restless Legs Syndrome (CR-RLS) in the evening and placebo at bedtime till the end of Week 2. At the end of Week 2, participants were converted back to receive placebo in the evening and Ropinirole 1 mg IR at bedtime and continued to receive the same till the end of Week 4.
  Arm 2: Ropinirole cohort A2: 1 mg IR/1 mg IR/1 mg IR/2 mg CR-RLS
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Participants received Placebo in the evening and Ropinirole 1 mg IR at bedtime on Week 1 and continued to receive the same till the end of Week 3. At the end of Week 3, participants were switched to receive Ropinirole 2 mg CR-RLS in the evening and placebo at bedtime till the end of Week 4.
  Arm 3: Ropinirole cohort B1: 2 mg IR/3 mg CR-RLS/2 mg IR/2 mg IR
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Participants received Placebo in the evening and Ropinirole 2 mg IR at bedtime on Week 1. At the end of Week 1, participants were switched to receive Ropinirole 3 mg CR-RLS in the evening and placebo at bedtime till the end of Week 2. At the end of Week 2, participants were converted back to receive placebo in the evening and Ropinirole 2 mg IR at bedtime and continued to receive the same till the end of Week 4.
  Arm 4: Ropinirole cohort B2: 2 mg IR/2 mg IR/2 mg IR/3 mg CR-RLS
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Participants received Placebo in the evening and Ropinirole 2 mg IR at bedtime on Week 1 and continued to receive the same till the end of Week 3. At the end of Week 3, participants were switched to receive Ropinirole 3 mg CR-RLS in the evening and placebo at bedtime till the end of Week 4.
  Arm 5: Ropinirole cohort C1: 4 mg IR/6 mg CR-RLS/4 mg IR/4 mg IR
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Participants received Placebo in the evening and Ropinirole 4 mg IR at bedtime on Week 1. At the end of Week 1, participants were switched to receive Ropinirole 6 mg CR-RLS in the evening and placebo at bedtime till the end of Week 2. At the end of Week 2, participants were converted back to receive placebo in the evening and Ropinirole 4 mg IR at bedtime and continued to receive the same till the end of Week 4.
  Arm 6: Ropinirole cohort C2: 4 mg IR/4 mg IR/4 mg IR/6 mg CR-RLS
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Participants received Placebo in the evening and Ropinirole 4 mg IR at bedtime on Week 1 and continued to receive the same till the end of Week 3. At the end of Week 3, participants were switched to receive Ropinirole 6 mg CR-RLS in the evening and placebo at bedtime till the end of Week 4.

INTERVENTIONS
  1. Ropinirole IR 1 mg (DRUG)
     Description: Ropinirole IR (SKF-101468) will be supplied in the form of a 7mm round bi-convex white film coated tablet, de-bossed with 'GS' on both faces, containing ropinirole hydrochloride equivalent to 1.0mg of active drug substance.
  2. Ropinirole IR 2 mg (DRUG)
     Description: Ropinirole IR (SKF-101468) will be supplied in the form of a 7mm round bi-convex white film coated tablet, de-bossed with 'GS' on both faces, containing ropinirole hydrochloride equivalent to 2.0mg of active drug substance.
  3. Ropinirole IR 1 mg Placebo (DRUG)
     Description: Ropinirole IR (SKF-101468) placebo will be supplied in the form of a 7mm round bi-convex white film coated tablet, de-bossed with 'GS' on both faces, containing matching placebo tablets of 1 mg.
  4. Ropinirole IR 2 mg Placebo (DRUG)
     Description: Ropinirole IR (SKF-101468) placebo will be supplied in the form of a 7mm round bi-convex white film coated tablet, de-bossed with 'GS' on both faces, containing matching placebo tablets of 2 mg.
  5. Ropinirole CR 2 mg (DRUG)
     Description: Ropinirole CR Tablets are presented as 7 mm round, bi-convex, white film coated tablets, de-bossed with 'GS' on both faces, containing ropinirole hydrochloride equivalent to 2mg of the active drug substance.
  6. Ropinirole CR 3 mg (DRUG)
     Description: Ropinirole CR Tablets are presented as 7 mm round, bi-convex, white film coated tablets, de-bossed with 'GS' on both faces, containing ropinirole hydrochloride equivalent to 3mg of the active drug substance.
  7. Ropinirole CR 2 mg Placebo (DRUG)
     Description: Ropinirole CR placebo Tablets are presented as 7 mm round, bi-convex, white film coated tablets, de-bossed with 'GS' on both faces, containing matching placebo tablets of 2 mg.
  8. Ropinirole CR 3 mg Placebo (DRUG)
     Description: Ropinirole CR placebo Tablets are presented as 7 mm round, bi-convex, white film coated tablets, de-bossed with 'GS' on both faces, containing matching placebo tablets of 3 mg.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) Post-conversion From Ropinirole IR to Ropinirole CR Over Period
     Time Frame: Up to 5 weeks
     Description: AE is an unfavorable change in the health of a participant, including abnormal laboratory findings, that happens during a clinical study or within a certain time period after the study has ended. This change may or may not be caused by the intervention being studied. In each of the 6 cohorts, there were 2 conversions, one of which was IR to CR-RLS and the other one IR to IR. Two populations were defined: the first conversion population and the second conversion population. The first conversion population consisted of all participants receiving at least one dose of randomized drug during the pre-conversion 1 period and during the post-conversion 1 period. The second conversion population consisted of all participants receiving at least one dose of randomized drug during the pre-conversion 2 period and during the post-conversion 2 period.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of Participants Discontinuing the Drug Due to AEs Post Conversion From Ropinirole IR to Ropinirole CR-RLS
     Time Frame: Up to 5 weeks
  2. Number of Participants With SAEs and Severity of AEs
     Time Frame: Up to 5 weeks
  3. Number of Participants With Positive Scores (Improved) on Clinical Global Impression Improvement Scale (CGI-I) Pre-conversion and One Week Post-conversion
     Time Frame: Up to 4 weeks
  4. Change From Pre-conversion in International RLS (IRLS) Rating Scale Total Score to One Week Post-conversion
     Time Frame: Up to 5 weeks
  5. Number of Participants With pre-and One Week Post-conversion Values of Vital Signs of Potential Clinical Concern (PCC)
     Time Frame: Up to 5 weeks

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: 79 Years
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Diagnosis of RLS using IRLS Study Group (IRLSSG) diagnostic criteria.
* Subjects currently being treated for RLS with a stable dose (for at least 2 weeks) of ropinirole IR given once daily.
* Subjects with RLS symptoms during both the evening and night or night time only.
* Subjects who have given written informed consent to participate.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Subjects who require treatment of daytime RLS symptoms.
* Signs of secondary RLS, serum ferritin level less than 10 mcg/L.
* Movement Disorders, Clinically significant or unstable medical conditions.
* Abnormal labs, electrocardiogram (ECG) or physical findings.
* Receiving prohibited medications.
* Sleeping habits incompatible with study design.
* Intolerance to ropinirole or other dopamine agonist.
* Pregnant or lactating.
* Women of child-bearing potential who are not practicing an acceptable method of birth control.

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
This is a multi-center, Phase III study to evaluate the safety and tolerability of proposed dose conversion recommendations for RLS subjects converting from ropinirole immediate release to ropinirole controlled-release for RLS.