STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT05071430
Brief Title: Safety and Efficacy of HB-1 for Panic Disorder
Official Title: Safety and Efficacy of HB-1 for Panic Disorder: A Multicenter, Randomized, Double Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial
Sponsor: Honeybrains Biotech LLC

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2022-02-03
Completion Date: 2022-12-12

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE2
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: TRIPLE
Enrollment: 86

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Active Treatment (HB-01)
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: Approximately 40 patients will receive HB-01 active study drug.
  Arm 2: Placebo Treatment
    Type: PLACEBO_COMPARATOR
    Description: Approximately 40 patients will receive a matched placebo.

INTERVENTIONS
  1. HB-01 (DRUG)
     Description: HB-1 will be supplied as a dual active pharmaceutical ingredient tablet.
  2. Placebo (DRUG)
     Description: HB-1 matched placebo

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events
     Time Frame: Up to 12 weeks
     Description: Safety was evaluated through Adverse Event monitoring, review of clinically significant changes in routine laboratory tests, ECGs, and orthostatic vital signs. The safety results were presented as: number of subjects reporting an adverse event as percentage of study population that met the eligibility criteria.
  2. Change in Panic Disorder Symptom Severity Scale (PDSS)
     Time Frame: Up to 12 weeks
     Description: Percentage of patients who achieved panic free status after 12 weeks"
  3. Change in Clinical Global Impression-Severity Scale (CGI-S)
     Time Frame: Up to 12 weeks
     Description: CGI-S is a 7 point scale where 1 indicates "normal, not at all ill" and 7 indicates "amongst the most extremely ill patients".

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of Panic Attacks
     Time Frame: Up to 12 weeks
     Description: The proportion of all subjects achieving panic-free status at the end of the study.

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: 60 Years
Healthy Volunteers: False
Criteria:
* Inclusion Criteria

  1. Male or female aged 18 to 60 years old, inclusive, at the time of informed consent.
  2. Meets Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) Criteria for Panic Disorder.
  3. Documented moderate to severe levels of symptoms at baseline (Panic Disorder Severity Scale of 13 or above)
  4. Medically stable on current medication regimen for at least 3 months including PRN ('as needed') medications as determined by Investigator.
  5. Willing to remain on current doses of other psychiatric medications throughout the length of the trial (unless a dose reduction is warranted due to improvement in symptoms).
  6. Willing and able to safely stop any of the following medications prior to study trial: Inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A4 (erythromycin, ritonavir, telithromycin, rifampin), HMG-CoA (hydroxy methylglutaric acid coagulase) Reductase Inhibitors (Simvastatin, Lovastatin, Atorvastatin), Beta Blockers (Timolol eyedrops, Metoprolol), Neuromuscular Blocking Agents (curare-like and depolarizing), Antihypertensive Agents (Prazosin and vasodilators, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, diuretics, beta blockers), Inhalation Anesthetics, Disopyramide, Flecainide, Quinidine, Cimetidine, Lithium, Carbamazepine, Phenobarbital, Cyclosporine, Digitalis, Aliskiren, Ramipril and Ramiprilat, aspirin.
  7. Fluent in English.
  8. Willing to take HB-1 or placebo.
  9. Willing and able to provide informed consent indicating an understanding of the requirements of the study and a willingness to comply with scheduled visits and all study procedures.
  10. Female patients must be surgically sterile (or have a monogamous partner who is surgically sterile) or be least 2 years postmenopausal or commits to use 2 acceptable forms of birth control (defined as the use of an intrauterine device, a barrier method with spermicide, condoms, any form of hormonal contraceptives, or abstinence) for the duration of the study and for 4 months following the last dose of study treatment. Male patients must be sterile (biologically or surgically) or commit to the use of a reliable method of birth control (condoms with spermicide) for the duration of the study and for 4 months following the last dose of study treatment. Individuals who are involved exclusively in same-sex relationships are exempt from the birth control requirements but must agree to abide by the recommendations if they do engage in a heterosexual relationship.
  11. Female patients who are women of childbearing potential (WOCBP) must have a negative pregnancy test at Screening, within 7 days of dosing with study treatment.
* Exclusion Criteria:

  1. Severe uncontrolled cardiac disease within 6 months of Screening, including but not limited to uncontrolled hypertension, hypotension (defined as below 90/60); unstable angina; myocardial infarction (MI) or cerebrovascular accident (CVA).
  2. Any clinically significant electrocardiogram (ECG) abnormalities at screening.
  3. Inadequate hepatic function defined as total bilirubin \>1.5 × the upper limit of normal (ULN) ranges of each institution, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) \>3 × the ULN range of each institution.
  4. Inadequate renal function defined as serum creatinine \>1.5 × the ULN range of each institution and/or estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) \<60.
  5. Any clinically significant abnormalities in clinical laboratory assessments as assessed by the Investigator.
  6. Any other systemic conditions or organ abnormalities that in the opinion of the Investigator may interfere with the conduct and/or interpretation of the current study.
  7. Unable to complete neuropsychological testing.
  8. Diagnosis of Bipolar I, Bipolar II disorder or Schizophrenia.
  9. History of suicidal behaviors including ideation.
  10. Current treatment with doses of benzodiazepines that are outside the FDA-approved prescriber's information.
  11. Already on treatment with either telmisartan or verapamil or both.
  12. Documented prior drug allergy to either telmisartan or verapamil.
  13. Documented contraindication to taking telmisartan or verapamil: (eg, Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, myasthenia gravis).
  14. Documented moderate to severe substance abuse within the last 6 months (recreational cannabis use is allowed).
  15. Pregnant or breastfeeding.

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of potential new treatment called "HB-1" versus placebo in male and female adult patients aged 18 to 60 years, inclusive, with panic disorder.

Detailed Description:
This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. All patients with panic disorder, with or without specified co-morbidities, who meet all of the inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria will be eligible. Patients and researchers will be blinded to their treatment group.

The study will enroll approximately 80 adult patients who meet the diagnosis of panic disorder.

The patients will be treated for 12 weeks including a 1 week safety follow up visit following the last dose of study drug.