STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00144846
Brief Title: Inhaled Albuterol Sulfate For Acute Wheezing Due To Obstructive Airways Disease In Children
Official Title: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Parallel-group, Multi-Center Study of Albuterol Sulfate HFA Inhalation Aerosol Delivered Cumulatively With a Valved Holding Chamber and an Attached Facemask in Subjects Between Birth to 23 Months of Age With Acute Wheezing Due to Obstructive Airways Disease
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2004-09
Completion Date: 2006-02

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE3
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 80

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Arm 1
    Type: OTHER
    Description: N/A

INTERVENTIONS
  1. albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol (DRUG)
     Description: N/A

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. To evaluate safety (adverse events, vital signs, physical exams, ECG monitoring etc.) of cumulative dosing of albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol
     Time Frame: N/A
     Description: N/A

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. To assess the efficacy measures (percent change from baseline over entire treatment period in the TAL score, respiratory rate, wheezing etc.) of cumulative dosing of albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol.
     Time Frame: N/A

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: N/A
Maximum Age: 23 Months
Criteria:
Inclusion criteria:

* Must be an outpatient.
* Age at second visit must be birth to \<24 months old.
* Parent/guardian who is willing to sign, or has signed, an informed consent.
* Must have acute wheezing consistent with reversible obstructive airway disease.
* Must have an asthma symptoms score between 4-9 based on the TAL score (Modified Tal Asthma Symptoms Score measured by the study site) at Screening (Visit 1) while the subject is breathing room air.

Exclusion criteria:

* History of life-threatening asthma or wheezing that requires admission to an intensive care unit for treatment within 3 months prior to Screening, or he/she has been treated in the emergency room and admitted to the hospital for airways obstruction on two or more occasions within 3 months prior to Screening, or there is a history of intubation for respiratory distress due to airways obstruction.
* Has impending respiratory failure.
* Taken medications such as acute/chronic systemic corticosteroids, CNS stimulants, investigational medications, theophylline or aminophylline, anti-arrhythmic within a certain time period prior to the study.
* Having the following signs or symptoms: 1)present with fever (rectal temperature \>100.5 ºF or tympanic temperature \>101.5ºF); 2) present with known pulmonary (lung) and/or cardiac (heart) congenital malformations; 3) have an underlying chronic disease (respiratory (Chronic pulmonary disease includes congenital anomalies, bronchopulmonary dysplasia, and cystic fibrosis), cardiac, renal, or liver insufficiency, immunodeficiency, encephalopathy); 4) known or suspected foreign body aspiration; 5) their Modified Tal Asthma Symptoms Score is 10; 6) their weight is below a certain limit for the average for their age; 8) they were born before 34 weeks' gestation. 9) Laboratory tests for serum potassium and blood glucose within the following limits (potassium between 3.0-5.8 mEq/L and glucose between 45-140mg/dL).

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
This study evaluates the effect of cumulative dose administration of albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol delivered with valved holding chamber and facemask. This is a four week study in birth to 23 month old subjects who are experiencing acute wheezing due to obstructive airways disease.