STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT03869892
Brief Title: Phase III Study in First-line Treatment of Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Who Are Not Candidate for Intensive Therapy.
Official Title: An Open-label, Randomised, Phase III Study cOmparing trifLuridine/Tipiracil (S 95005) in Combination With Bevacizumab to Capecitabine in Combination With Bevacizumab in firST-line Treatment of Patients With metastatIC Colorectal Cancer Who Are Not candidatE for Intensive Therapy (SOLSTICE Study)
Sponsor: Servier

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Start Date: 2019-03-21
Completion Date: 2026-12-31

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE3
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 856

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: S95005 + Bevacizumab
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: N/A
  Arm 2: Capecitabine + Bevacizumab
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: N/A

INTERVENTIONS
  1. Trifluridine/tipiracil hydrochloride (S95005) (DRUG)
     Description: Film-coated tablets of S 95005 (35 mg/m²/dose) will be administered orally twice a day (BID), within 1 hour after completion of morning and evening meals, 5 days on/2 days off, over 2 weeks, followed by a 14-day rest; This treatment cycle will be repeated every 4 weeks.
  2. Capecitabine (DRUG)
     Description: Film-coated tablets, Capecitabine (1250 mg/m²/dose) will be administered orally BID on Days 1-14 of each cycle. This treatment cycle will be repeated every 3 weeks.
  3. Bevacizumab experimental (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: Concentrate for solution for infusion, Bevacizumab (5 mg/kg, IV) administered every 2 weeks (Day 1 and Day 15). This treatment cycle will be repeated every 4 weeks.
  4. Bevacizumab control (BIOLOGICAL)
     Description: Concentrate for solution for infusion, Bevacizumab (7.5 mg/kg, IV) will be administered on Day 1 of each cycle.This treatment cycle will be repeated every 3 weeks.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Progression-free Survival (PFS)
     Time Frame: Up to 24 months
     Description: Time elapsed between the randomization and the date of radiological tumour progression (according to RECIST 1.1) or death from any cause.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Overall Survival (OS)
     Time Frame: Up to 8 years
  2. Overall response rate (ORR)
     Time Frame: Up to 8 years
  3. Disease control rate (DCR)
     Time Frame: Up to 8 years
  4. Duration of response (DoR)
     Time Frame: Up to 8 years
  5. Time to treatment failure (TTF)
     Time Frame: Up to 8 years

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Has definitive histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the colon or rectum (all other histological types are excluded). Primary tumour localisation must be known.
2. RAS status based on local biological assessment of tumour biopsy must be available. If RAS status is not available at the time of randomisation, tumour biopsy must be available for RAS status determination (based on local biological assessment).
3. Patient is not a candidate for standard full dose combination chemotherapy with irinotecan or oxaliplatin
4. Patient is not a candidate for curative resection of metastatic lesions.
5. No previous systemic anticancer therapy for unresectable metastatic colorectal cancer.
6. ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) performance status ≤2.
7. Adequate organ function (renal, haematological, hepatic, coagulation) as described in the study protocol'

   Exclusion Criteria:
8. Pregnancy, breastfeeding or possibility of becoming pregnant during the study.
9. Participation in another interventional study within 4 weeks prior to the randomisation .
10. Patients who have not recovered from clinically relevant non-hematologic CTCAE grade ≥ 3 toxicity of previous anticancer therapy prior to the randomisation.
11. Symptomatic central nervous system metastases.
12. Major surgery within 4 weeks prior to the randomisation.

    Exclusion criteria related to S 95005 administration:
13. History of allergic reactions attributed to compounds of similar composition to S 95005 or any of its excipients.
14. Any contraindication present in the SmPC of trifluridine/tipiracil

    Exclusion criteria related to bevacizumab administration:
15. Any contraindication present in the SmPC of bevacizumab

    Exclusion criteria related to capecitabine administration:
16. Any contraindication present in the SmPC of capecitabine

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
The main purpose of this study is to demonstrate the superiority of S 95005 in combination with bevacizumab over capecitabine in combination with bevacizumab.