STUDY: A Single Centre, Single Blind Study to Investigate the Safety, Tolerability and Pharmacokinetics of Single Doses of Oxytocin (GR121619) Administered Via an Inhaled Route in Healthy Female Volunteers
NCT ID: NCT02542813
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE1
Design: FACTORIAL
Masking: SINGLE
Enrollment: 16

Arm: IM oxytocin - IH placebo/IH oxytocin (50, 200, 400, 600) (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: IM oxytocin - IH placebo/IH oxytocin (50) (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: IM oxytocin 10 IU
Intervention: IH oxytocin 50 mcg
Intervention: IH oxytocin 200 mcg
Intervention: IH oxytocin 400 mcg

PRIMARY: Number of subjects with adverse events (AEs)
  Time: Up to 16 weeks
  Desc: An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product.
PRIMARY: Absolute values and changes over time of haematology from pre-dose values as a measure of safety and tolerability
  Time: Up to 20 weeks
  Desc: Hematology assessments will be performed for the following parameters: platelet count, red blood cell (RBC) count, hemoglobin, hematocrit, white blood cells (WBC) (absolute), mean corpuscular volume (MCV), mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), neutrophils, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, and basophils.
PRIMARY: Absolute values and changes over time of clinical chemistry from pre-dose values as a measure of safety and tolerability
  Time: Up to 20 weeks
  Desc: Clinical chemistry assessments will be performed for the following parameters: blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, glucose, potassium, sodium, calcium, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase, total and direct bilirubin, total protein, and albumin.

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Between 18 and 45 years of age inclusive, at the time of signing the informed consent.
* Premenopausal women on an oestrogen-containing oral contraceptive pill (OCP) for a 12 month minimum period and to continue their current OCP schedule for the duration of the clinical study and until completion of the follow-up visit.
* Physically capable of using an oral inhalation dry powder inhaler (DPI) device without physical assistance.
* FEV1.0 within normal range at screening.
* Healthy as determined by the investigator or medically qualified designee based on a medical evaluation including medical history, physical examination, laboratory tests and 12-lead ECG. A subject with a clinical abnormality or laboratory parameter(s) which is/are not specifically listed in the inclusion or exclusion criteria, outside the reference range for the population being studied may be included only if the investigator in consultation with the Medical Monitor if required agree and document that the finding is unlikely to introduce additional risk factors and will not interfere with the study procedures.
* Body mass index (BMI) within the range 18 - 30 kilogram (kg)/square meter (m\^2) (inclusive).
* Only females may participate. A female subject is eligible to participate if she is not pregnant (as confirmed by a negative serum human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) test), not lactating, and at least one of the following conditions applies: The investigator is responsible for ensuring that subjects are reminded during the study of the importance of maintaining compliance to oral contraception.
* Capable of giving signed informed consent as described in protocol which includes compliance with the requirements and restrictions listed in the consent form and in this protocol.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Postmenopausal female as defined by gynaecological history.
* Chronic lung condition of any aetiology including adult asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), emph

SUMMARY:
Intramuscular (IM) oxytocin is the gold standard prophylactic therapy for post partum haemorrhage (PPH). However, in resource-poor settings within the developing world, the stability and therefore effectiveness of prophylactic IM oxytocin is diminished by a lack of appropriate refrigeration facilities and availability of trained health care professionals (HCPs) to administer IM injections. This study will be the first investigation of oxytocin in humans via the inhaled (IH) route and is designed to evaluate the safety and tolerability of inhaled oxytocin and the five non-pharmacologically active components in the placebo, and to establish the PK characteristics of up to four fixed escalating doses of inhaled oxytocin. In this single blind ascending dose-escalation study, the systemic exposure from up to four proposed escalating inhaled fixed-dose levels (50 micrograms \[mcg\], 200 mcg, 400 mcg and 600 mcg) will be compared with the systemic exposure following 10 international units (IU) of IM oxytocin in healthy premenopausal females.. A total of 15 subjects will be enrolled after screening sufficient number of healthy female subjects and the subjects will be assigned to one of the two treatment sequences. The total duration of this study is approximately 20 weeks.