STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT02743221
Brief Title: A Study Evaluating S 95005 Plus Bevacizumab and Capecitabine Plus Bevacizumab in Patients With Previously Untreated Colorectal Cancer Who Are Non-eligible for Intensive Therapy
Official Title: An Open-label, Randomised, Non-comparative Phase 2 Study Evaluating S 95005 (TAS-102) Plus Bevacizumab and Capecitabine Plus Bevacizumab in Patients With Previously Untreated Metastatic COlorectal Cancer Who Are Non-eligible for Intensive Therapy (TASCO1 Study).
Sponsor: Servier

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2016-04-29
Completion Date: 2020-09-01

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE2
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 154

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Trifluridine/tipiracil + bevacizumab
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Trifluridine/tipiracil (S95005): film-coated tablets containing 15mg of trifluridine and 7.065mg of tipiracil hydrochloride, or 20mg of trifluridine and 9.42mg of tipiracil hydrochloride.

Bevacizumab: concentrate for solution for IV infusion containing 25mg/ml of bevacizumab.

Trifluridine/tipiracil was administered at 35 mg/m2/dose orally within 1 hour after completion of morning and evening meals, for 5 days on/2 days off, over 2 weeks, followed by a 14-day rest period, with bevacizumab administered intravenously at the dose of 5 mg/kg every 2 weeks at Day 1 and Day 15.This treatment cycle was repeated every 4 weeks.
  Arm 2: Capecitabine + bevacizumab
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: Capecitabine was administered at 1250 mg/m² orally BID (bis in die)on Days 1-14 of each cycle, with bevacizumab (7.5 mg/kg, IV) administered on Day 1 of each cycle. This treatment cycle was repeated every 3 weeks

INTERVENTIONS
  1. Trifluridine/tipiracil + bevacizumab (DRUG)
     Description: Patients were treated withTrifluridine/tipiracil + bevacizumab regimen until they met a discontinuation criterion.
  2. Capecitabine + bevacizumab (DRUG)
     Description: Patients were treated with capecitabine+ bevacizumab regimen until they met a discontinuation criterion.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Progression Free Survival (PFS)
     Time Frame: Baseline and every 8 weeks (maximum follow-up duration: 17.9 months)
     Description: The progression free survival (PFS), defined as the time from the date of randomisation until the date of the investigator-assessed radiological disease progression or death due to any cause according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. Progressive disease (PD) was defined at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the smallest sum on study) and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm in the sum of lesions or the appearance of new lesions.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Overall Response Rate (ORR)
     Time Frame: Baseline and every 8 weeks (maximum follow-up duration: 17.9 months)
  2. Duration of Response (DR)
     Time Frame: Baseline and every 8 weeks (maximum follow-up duration: 16.6 months)
  3. Disease Control Rate (DCR)
     Time Frame: Baseline and every 8 weeks (maximum follow-up duration: 17.9 months)
  4. Overall Survival (OS)
     Time Frame: Baseline up to death or study cut-off (maximum follow-up duration: 19.9 months)

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Written informed consent obtained.
* Has ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) performance status of 0, 1 or 2 at the time of the randomisation.
* Has definitive histologically or cytologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the colon or rectum.
* RAS status must have been determined (mutant or wild).
* Has at least one measurable metastatic lesion.
* No previous systemic anticancer therapy for unresectable metastatic colorectal cancer.
* Previous adjuvant (or neoadjuvant for patients with rectal cancer) chemotherapy is allowed only if if it has been completed more than 6 months before start of study treatment.
* Patient is not a candidate for combination chemotherapy with irinotecan or oxaliplatin, or for curative resection of metastatic lesions.
* Is able to take medication orally (i.e., no feeding tube).
* Has adequate organ function.
* Coagulation parameters in normal limit (or in therapeutic limit for patients treated with anticoagulant drugs).
* Women of childbearing potential must have been tested negative in a serum pregnancy test. Female participants of childbearing potential and male participants with partners of childbearing potential must agree to use a highly effective method of birth control. Women and female partners using hormonal contraceptive must also use a barrier method.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Is a pregnant or lactating female.
* Has certain serious illness or serious medical condition(s) as described in the protocol.
* Has had certain other recent treatment e.g. major surgery, field radiation, received investigational agent, within the specified time frames prior to randomisation.
* Has previously received Trifluridine/tipiracil or history of allergic reactions attributed to compounds of similar composition to Trifluridine/tipiracil or any of its excipients.
* Has rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, the Lapp lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption.
* Has contra-indication to bevacizumab or capecitabine.

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) in patients receiving S 95005 + bevacizumab (experimental arm) or capecitabine + bevacizumab (control arm) as first-line treatment for unresectable metastatic colorectal cancer in patients non-eligible for intensive therapy.