STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
Study: Retreatment Study of Patients With Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma Who Have Previously Responded to Iodine-131 Anti B1 Antibody
NCT ID: NCT00938041
Phase: PHASE2
Enrollment: 32
Endpoint Type: ORR

PRIMARY ANALYSIS
  Outcome: Number of Participants With Complete Response and Confirmed Complete Response
  Time Frame: N/A
  Description: Complete response (CR) is defined as the complete resolution of all disease-related radiological abnormalities and the disappearance of all signs and symptoms related to the disease. Response is defined as the best response achieved at any evaluation. A confirmed response is defined as a response that was confirmed by two separate response evaluations occurring at least 4 weeks apart.
  Outcome: Duration of Response for All Confirmed Responders (CR + CCR + PR)
  Time Frame: N/A
  Description: For participants with CR, clinical CR (CCR), or partial response (PR), duration of response is defined as the time from the first documented response to the first documented progression. CCR is defined as the complete resolution of all disease-related symptoms, but residual foci, thought to be residual scar tissue, are present. Generally, an unchanging lesion \<=2 centimeters (cm) in diameter by radiographic evaluation or \<=1 cm in diameter by physical examination can be considered scar tissue.
  Outcome: Progression-free Survival
  Time Frame: N/A
  Description: Progression-free survival (time to progression or death) is defined as the time from the start of retreatment (i.e., the dosimetric dose) to the first documented progression or death. Disease Progression (PD) is defined as a \>=25% increase from the nadir value of the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions or the appearance of any new lesion. Individual lesions must be grater than 2 cm diameter by radiographic evaluation or grater than 1 cm diameter 
  Outcome: Time to Treatment Failure
  Time Frame: N/A
  Description: Time to treatment failure is defined as the time from the dosimetric dose to the first occurrence of treatment withdrawal, a decision to receive additional therapy, study withdrawal, disease progression, or death.
  Outcome: Overall Survival
  Time Frame: N/A
  Description: Time to death (overall survival) is defined as the time from the start of retreatment (i.e., the dosimetric dose) to the date of death from any cause.
  Outcome: Number of Participants With Any Serious Adverse Event (SAE) and Adverse Event (AE)
  Time Frame: N/A
  Description: An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE is defined as those events that were fatal or immediately life-threatening, and those events that resulted in hospitalization; prolonged an existing hospitalization; or resulted in disability, congenital anomaly, or cancer. Refer to the general AE/SAE module for a c
