STUDY: Valproate Dose Reduction and Its Clinical Evaluation by Introducing Lamotrigine in Japanese Women With Epilepsy - Single Arm, Multicenter, and Open-label Study -
NCT ID: NCT02100644
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE4
Design: SINGLE_GROUP
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 33

Arm: Lamotrigine (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: Lamotrigine tablets 25/100 mg

PRIMARY: Percentage of Participants Who Achieved Reduction in Daily VPA Dose
  Time: Baseline and at the end of the LTG and VPA Maintenance Phase, 24-46 weeks that can be varied by durations of the LTG Escalation Phase and VPA Reduction Phase
  Desc: The VPA dose reduction from Baseline is defined as post VPA dose minus the Baseline VPA dose \< 0. Baseline VPA dose is the dose at the Baseline visit (Week 0) and the post VPA dose is the last VPA dose during the LTG and VPA Maintenance Phase. Percentage of participants with dose reduction during the LTG and VPA Maintenance Phase is presented.
PRIMARY: Percent Change in the VPA Dose
  Time: Baseline and at the end of the LTG and VPA Maintenance Phase, 24-46 weeks that can be varied by durations of the LTG Escalation Phase and VPA Reduction Phase
  Desc: Percent change in VPA dose is calculated as (pre-dose - post-dose) / pre-dose x 100. Pre-dose is the VPA dose at the Baseline visit and post-dose is the last VPA dose during the LTG and VPA Maintenance Phase.

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

1. (Target disease) Epilepsy patients having the following seizure types as classified by the International Classification of Epileptic Seizures

   * Partial seizures (with or without secondary generalization)
   * Tonic-clonic seizures with or without myoclonus but without other generalized seizure type(s)
2. Subjects having a confident diagnosis of epilepsy that is uncomplicated by pseudoseizures such as psychogenic nonepileptic seizures
3. Subjects whose seizures have been controlled for 12 weeks prior to start of the investigational product with a stable maintenance dose of VPA monotherapy (400-1200 mg/d)
4. (Age and gender)

Japanese pre-menopausal women who are at least 15 years old at the time of consent, not lactating, and can agree to use any of the following types of contraception in a reliable fashion:

1. Complete abstinence during the study as well as for a period after the study to account for elimination of the investigational product (a minimum of 2 weeks)
2. Consistent and correct use of any of the following contraceptive methods

   * Surgical sterilization of male partner (i.e., male partner is the sole sexual partner for the female subject and is sterilized prior to the subject's entry into the study)
   * Intrauterine device with a failure rate of less than 1% per year
   * Double barrier method (e.g., spermicide plus a condom or a diaphragm) Note: Women who have had a hysterectomy or tubal ligation are considered to be of non-childbearing potential. Since a pharmacokinetic interaction has been observed between LTG and estrogen-based oral contraceptives, the use of hormonal therapy such as for contraception or hormone replacement therapy is not allowed.

     5.Outpatients 6.Subjects who can keep a seizure diary 7.Subjects who can understand and sign the informed consent. If the subject is under 20 years old at the time of consent, both the subject and subject's legally acceptable representative have to sign the consent to 

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to examine whether the VPA (Valproate) dose can be reduced by additional administration of LTG (Lamotrigine) in Japanese pre-menopausal female epilepsy patients aged 15 years or older, whose seizures are well controlled by VPA monotherapy.