STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT01476046
Brief Title: Safety Study of GSK1995057 Given as Single and Repeat Intravenous Doses in Healthy Subjects.
Official Title: A Two-part, Randomised, Placebo-controlled Study to Investigate the Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamicsof Single and Repeat Doses of Intravenously Infused GSK1995057 in Healthy Subjects.
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2011-03-08
Completion Date: 2012-06-17

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE1
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: SINGLE_GROUP
Primary Purpose: DIAGNOSTIC
Masking: SINGLE
Enrollment: 56

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: GSK1995057
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Single intravenous dose
  Arm 2: Placebo
    Type: PLACEBO_COMPARATOR
    Description: Single intravenous dose

INTERVENTIONS
  1. GSK1995057 single dose (DRUG)
     Description: Single intravenous dose
  2. Placebo (DRUG)
     Description: Single intravenous dose

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Occurance of adverse events.
     Time Frame: From start of screening until 84 days after completion of single dose (Part A subjects) or first dose (Part B subjects).
     Description: Number and type of adverse events recorded during study.
  2. Change from baseline in blood pressure.
     Time Frame: From start of screening until 28 days after completion of single or repeat dosing.
     Description: Systolic and diastolic blood pressure values before and after dosing completion.
  3. Change from baseline in heart rate.
     Time Frame: From start of screening until 28 days after completion of single or repeat dosing.
     Description: Heart rate before and after dosing completion.
  4. Change from baseline in respiration rate.
     Time Frame: From start of screening until 28 days after completion of single or repeat dosing.
     Description: Respiration rate before and after dosing completion.
  5. Change from baseline in body temperature.
     Time Frame: From start of screening until 28 days after completion of single or repeat dosing.
     Description: Body temperature before and after dosing completion.
  6. Change from baseline in heart function.
     Time Frame: For 24hrs during screening, then for 1 hour before dosing to 24 hours after dosing starts (in Part A subjects only, except for cohort 7).
     Description: Holter recording.
  7. Change from baseline in heart function
     Time Frame: From 1 hour before dosing to 12 hours after dosing starts for each dose.
     Description: Lead II cardiac telemetry.
  8. Change from baseline in heart function.
     Time Frame: From start of screening until 28 days after completion of single or repeat dosing.
     Description: 12-lead ECG recording.
  9. Change from baseline in lung function.
     Time Frame: From start of screening until 28 days after completion of single or repeat dosing.
     Description: FEV1 and FVC measurements.
  10. Change from baseline in laboratory safety data.
     Time Frame: From start of screening until 28 days after completion of single or repeat dosing.
     Description: Clinical chemistry, haematology and routine urinalysis.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Plasma pharmacokinetics of GSK1995057
     Time Frame: From the first day of dosing until 48 hours after the completion of dosing.
  2. Urine pharmacokinetics of GSK1995057
     Time Frame: From 1 hour before the only dose until 48 hours after the dose.
  3. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) (saline flushed into and then collected from a lung) pharmacokinetics.
     Time Frame: At 2 hrs after the completion of the only dose.
  4. Effect of GSK1995057 on host immunity and immunological function
     Time Frame: From the day before dosing starts to 28 days after dosing completion.
  5. Effects of GSK1995057 on host immunity and immunological function
     Time Frame: At 2 hrs after the completion of the only dose.

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: 55 Years
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Healthy as determined by a responsible and experienced physician.
* Male or female between 18 and 55 years of age inclusive
* A female subject is eligible to participate if she is of non-childbearing potential defined as pre-menopausal females with a documented tubal ligation, hysterectomy or bilateral oophorectomy; or postmenopausal defined as 12 months of spontaneous amenorrhea and elevated FSH as per the local laboratory guidelines.
* Normal creatinine clearance values at screening
* Male subjects must agree to use one of the study specific contraception methods
* Body weight ≥ 50 kg and BMI within the range 19 - 29.9 kg/m2 (inclusive).
* Normal lung function at screening.
* Capable of giving written informed consent, which includes compliance with the requirements and restrictions listed in the consent form.
* Available to complete all study assessments.
* Able to read, comprehend and write English at a sufficient level to complete study elated materials.

Exclusion Criteria:

* A history of Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C or HIV infection and/or a positive pre-study HIV, Hepatitis B surface antigen or positive Hepatitis C antibody result within 3 months of screening
* Current or chronic history of liver disease, or known hepatic or biliary abnormalities. (With the exception of known Gilbert's syndrome or asymptomatic gallstones).
* A positive pre-study drug/alcohol screen.
* Evidence of previous or active mycobacterium tuberculosis complex infection
* Recent history of and/or a positive test for Toxoplasma consistent with active oxoplasmosis infection.
* A positive test for influenza A/B taken within 7 days before dosing.
* Current evidence or history of an influenza-like illness.
* Corrected QT interval (QTcF) \>450msec from ECG readings.
* History of regular alcohol consumption within 6 months of the study defined as an average weekly intake of \>21 units for males or \>14 units for females. One unit is equivalent to 8 g of alcohol and the following can be used as a guide: a half-pint (\~240 ml) of beer, 1 glass (125 ml) of wine or 1 (25 ml) measure of spirits.
* The subject is unwilling to abstain from alcohol consumption from 24 hr prior to dosing until discharge from the clinic, and for 24 hr prior to all other out-patient clinic visits.
* Subjects with a smoking history of \>10 cigarettes per day in the last 3 months.
* The subject has participated in a clinical trial and has received an investigational product within the following time period prior to the first dosing day in the current study: 90 days, 5 half-lives or twice the duration of the biological effect of the investigational product (whichever is longer) or exposure to more than four new chemical or biological entities within 12 months prior to the first dosing day.
* Subjects having received any type of vaccination within 3 weeks of the anticipated dosing start or are expected to be vaccinated within 3 weeks after the last dose.
* Current evidence of ongoing 

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
The main purpose of the study is to see how safe GSK1995057 is and how well it is tolerated after dosing. The study will also investigate how GSK1995057 is taken up, metabolised (chemically broken down), distributed through the body and excreted, and what some of the effects of the study drug are.

Detailed Description:
This study will be the first investigation of GSK1995057 in humans and is primarily designed to investigate safety and tolerability of single and repeat intravenously infused doses. The study will enrol healthy male subjects and healthy female subjects of non-child bearing potential and will also investigate immunogenicity, GSK1995057 distribution (pharmacokinetics), and potential impact on indicators of host immunity and normal immunological function. Safety, tolerability, immunogenicity, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data from this trial may facilitate further clinical investigations in healthy subjects dosed with GSK1995057 via the inhaled route, and ultimately clinical trials in patients with acute lung injury.