STUDY: An Open-label, Randomised, Single Dose, Three-Way Crossover, Six Sequence, Pilot Study to Determine the Relative Bioavailability of Montelukast Sodium 5mg From Two Candidate Chewable Tablet Formulations of GW483100 Relative to One 5mg Chewable Tablet of Reference Montelukast Sodium in Healthy Adult Subjects Under Fasting Conditions
NCT ID: NCT02322671
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE1
Design: CROSSOVER
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 18

Arm: Sequence ABC (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Sequence ACB (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Sequence BAC (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Sequence BCA (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: Reference Montelukast
Intervention: Test 1 Montelukast
Intervention: Test 2 Montelukast

PRIMARY: Composite of plasma pharmacokinetic [PK] parameters of montelukast sodium
  Time: Pre-dose, 0.50, 1.00, 1.25, 1.50, 1.75, 2.0, 2.25, 2.50, 2.75, 3.00, 3.50, 4.00, 5.00, 6.00, 8.00, 10.00, 12.00, 16.00 and 24.00 hours post dose during each treatment period
  Desc: Plasma PK parameters includes Maximum observed concentration (Cmax), Area under the concentration-time curve from time zero (pre-dose) extrapolated to infinite\[inf\] time (AUC\[0-inf\]) and Area under the concentration-time curve from time zero (pre-dose) to last time of quantifiable concentration within a subject across all treatments (AUC\[0-t\]).

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Male and females aged between 18 and 65 years of age inclusive, at the time of signing the informed consent.
* Healthy as determined by the investigator or medically qualified designee based on a medical evaluation including medical history, physical examination, laboratory tests and cardiac monitoring.
* A subject with a clinical abnormality or laboratory parameter(s) which is/are not specifically listed in the inclusion or exclusion criteria, outside the reference range for the population being studied may be included only if the investigator in consultation with the Medical Monitor if required, agree and document that the finding is unlikely to introduce additional risk factors and will not interfere with the study procedures.
* Body weight \>= 50 kilograms (kg) and Body mass index (BMI) within the range 19 - 24.9 kilograms per square meter (kg/m\^2) (inclusive).
* Male subject
* Female subject: is eligible to participate if she is not pregnant (as confirmed by a negative serum human chorionic gonadotrophin \[hCG\] test), not lactating, and at least one of the following conditions applies:

Non-reproductive potential defined as:

Pre-menopausal females with one of the following:

Documented tubal ligation Documented hysteroscopic tubal occlusion procedure with follow-up confirmation of bilateral tubal occlusion Hysterectomy Documented Bilateral Oophorectomy

* Postmenopausal defined as 12 months of spontaneous amenorrhea \[in questionable cases a blood sample with simultaneous follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and estradiol levels consistent with menopause (refer to laboratory reference ranges for confirmatory levels)\]. Females on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and whose menopausal status is in doubt will be required to use one of the highly effective contraception methods if they wish to continue their HRT during the study. Otherwise, they must discontinue HRT to allow confirmation of post-menopausal status prior to study enrolment.
*

SUMMARY:
This study is designed to estimate the bioavailability of montelukast from the 5 milligrams (mg) montelukast sodium (GW483100) test formulations relative to 5 mg montelukast sodium reference chewable tablets (innovator product). It is an open-label, randomized, single dose, three-way cross over, six sequence study in 18 healthy human subjects. Each subject will participate in all three treatment periods. Subjects will be randomized to one of six sequences and administered one of the three treatments A, B or C in each treatment period, where Treatment A is 5mg chewable tablet of reference 5 mg montelukast sodium reference chewable tablets (innovator product), Treatment B is test formulation 1: 5mg montelukast sodium (GW483100) chewable tablet and Treatment C is test formulation 2: 5mg montelukast sodium (GW483100) chewable tablet. The treatment periods will be separated by a washout period of 7 to 14 days. Total duration in the study for each subject will be approximately 8 weeks from screening to the follow-up visit.