STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT01573819
Brief Title: A Repeat Dose Study in Healthy Volunteers Investigating Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of GSK356278
Official Title: A Randomised, Placebo Controlled, Ascending, Repeat Dose Study in Healthy Volunteers Investigating Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of GSK356278
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE1
Enrollment: 36

Arm 1: Cohort 1 - EXPERIMENTAL
Arm 2: Cohort 2 - EXPERIMENTAL
Arm 3: Cohort 3 - EXPERIMENTAL

Primary 1: Composite (or Profile) of Pharmacokinetics
  Time: Cohort 1 for 288 hours post dose; Cohort 2 for 384 hours post dose; Cohort 3 single dose session for 72 hours; Cohort 3 repeat dose session for 744 hours post dose.
Primary 2: Safety and tolerability parameters including change from baseline measures for vital signs
  Time: Cohort 1 for 15 days post dose; Cohort 2 for 19 days post dose; Cohort 3 single dose session for 4 days post dose; Cohort 3 repeat dose for 33 days post dose.
Primary 3: Safety and tolerability parameters including change from baseline for 12-lead ECGs
  Time: Cohort 1 for 15 days post dose; Cohort 2 for 19 days post dose; Cohort 3 single dose session for 4 days post dose; Cohort 3 repeat dose for 33 days post dose.

ELIGIBILITY
Inclusion Criteria:

* AST, ALT, alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin less than and equal to 1.5xULN (isolated bilirubin greater than 1.5xULN is acceptable if bilirubin is fractionated and direct bilirubin less than 35%).
* Healthy as determined by a responsible and experienced physician, based on a medical evaluation including medical history, physical examination, laboratory tests and cardiac monitoring. A subject with a clinically significant abnormality or laboratory parameters significantly outside the reference range for the population being studied may be included only if the Investigator and the GSK Medical Monitor agree that the finding is unlikely to introduce additional risk factors and will not interfere with the study procedures.
* Male or female between 18 and 65 years of age inclusive, at the time of signing the informed consent.
* A female subject is eligible to participate if she is of: Non-childbearing potential is defined as pre-menopausal females with a documented tubal ligation or hysterectomy; or postmenopausal defined as 12 months of spontaneous amenorrhea. In questionable cases a blood sample with simultaneous follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) greater than 40 MlU/ml and estradiol less than 40 pg/ml (less than 147 pmol/L) is confirmatory. Females on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and whose menopausal status is in doubt will not be eligible for the study.
* Male subjects with female partners of child-bearing potential must agree to use one of the contraception methods listed in the protocol (contraception requirements). This criterion must be followed from the time of the first dose of study medication until the follow up visit.
* Body weight greater than and equal to 50 kg and BMI within the range 19 - 30 kg/m2 (inclusive).
* Capable of giving written informed consent, which includes compliance with the requirements and restrictions listed in the consent form.Average of triplicate QTcF less than 450 msec (on an average of triplicate values)


SUMMARY
The study drug, GSK356278, is a possible new medicine for the treatment of Huntington's disease. Huntington's disease, which is often called HD, is caused by a faulty gene that is passed down through families. HD causes damage to nerve cells in the brain which causes them to waste away. As the damage progresses patients develop symptoms that affect every aspect of life. HD reduces people's ability to walk, talk, think, communicate and causes uncontrolled movements. GSK356278 may slow down the progression of damage to nerve cells in people with HD and help with their ability to think.

GSK356278 was well tolerated when it was given as a single dose to healthy people. In this study we want to see what effects, both good and bad, GSK356278 has in people when it is taken every day. During the study we will look at about 3 different doses of GSK356278 in about 36 healthy people. The study will also look at how GSK356278 tablets behave in the body after it is swallowed (this is called pharmacokinetics). The study will also look at effects of GSK356278 on the body (this is called pharmacodynamics). The study will help to design future clinical studies with GSK356278.