STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT02848443
Brief Title: Study of S 95005 in Combination With Oxaliplatin in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
Official Title: Phase I Dose-escalation of S 95005 (TAS-102) in Combination With Oxaliplatin in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
Sponsor: Servier

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2016-05
Completion Date: 2020-04-09

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE1
Allocation: NA
Intervention Model: SINGLE_GROUP
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 78

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: S 95005 + oxaliplatin (+/- bevacizumab or nivolumab)
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: N/A

INTERVENTIONS
  1. Trifluridine/tipiracil hydrochloride (S 95005) (DRUG)
     Description: Film-coated tablets containing 15mg of trifluridine and 7.065mg of tipiracil hydrochloride, or 20mg of trifluridine and 9.42mg of tipiracil hydrochloride, given orally at the dose of 25 or 30 or 35 mg/m2/dose, until unacceptable toxicity according to the investigator, disease progression or patient withdrawal.
  2. Oxaliplatin (DRUG)
     Description: Concentrate for solution for infusion containing 5mg/ml of oxaliplatin, administered intravenously at the dose of 65 to 85 mg/m2, until unacceptable toxicity according to the investigator, disease progression or patient withdrawal.
  3. Bevacizumab (DRUG)
     Description: Concentrate for solution for infusion containing 25mg/ml of bevacizumab, administered intravenously at the dose of 5 mg/kg, until unacceptable toxicity according to the investigator, disease progression or patient withdrawal.
  4. Nivolumab (DRUG)
     Description: Concentrate for solution for infusion containing 10mg/ml of nivolumab, administered intravenously at the dose of 3 mg/kg, until unacceptable toxicity according to the investigator, disease progression or patient withdrawal.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of S95005 when given in combination with oxaliplatin
     Time Frame: up to 4 weeks after the first treatment administration
     Description: N/A
  2. Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) of S95005 when given in combination with oxaliplatin
     Time Frame: up to 4 weeks after the first treatment administration
     Description: N/A
  3. Number of participants with adverse events as a measure of safety and tolerability for S95005-oxaliplatin.
     Time Frame: through study completion, an average of 9 months
     Description: Adverse event reporting will be graded following the National Cancer Institute of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.03
  4. Changes in standard hematology as a measure of safety and tolerability for S95005-oxaliplatin
     Time Frame: through study completion, an average of 9 months
     Description: N/A
  5. Changes in biochemistry as a measure of safety and tolerability for S95005-oxaliplatin
     Time Frame: through study completion, an average of 9 months
     Description: N/A
  6. Changes in coagulation as a measure of safety and tolerability for S95005-oxaliplatin
     Time Frame: through study completion, an average of 9 months
     Description: N/A
  7. Changes in urinalysis as a measure of safety and tolerability for S95005-oxaliplatin
     Time Frame: through study completion, an average of 9 months
     Description: N/A
  8. Changes in vital signs as a measure of safety for S95005-oxaliplatin
     Time Frame: through study completion, an average of 9 months
     Description: Vital sign measurements will include temperature, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, and respiratory rate.
  9. Changes in ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) performance status as a measure of safety and tolerability for S95005-oxaliplatin
     Time Frame: through study completion, an average of 9 months
     Description: N/A

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Antitumor activity assessed by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) and CEA (Carcinoembryonic Antigen)
     Time Frame: through study completion, an average of 9 months
  2. Number of participants with adverse events as a measure of safety and tolerability for S95005-oxaliplatin + bevacizumab or nivolumab.
     Time Frame: through study completion, an average of 9 months
  3. Changes in standard hematology as a measure of safety and tolerability for S95005-oxaliplatin + bevacizumab or nivolumab.
     Time Frame: through study completion, an average of 9 months
  4. Changes in biochemistry as a measure of safety and tolerability for S95005-oxaliplatin + bevacizumab or nivolumab.
     Time Frame: through study completion, an average of 9 months
  5. Changes in coagulation as a measure of safety and tolerability for S95005-oxaliplatin + bevacizumab.
     Time Frame: through study completion, an average of 9 months

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Age 18 years or older.
* Histologically confirmed metastatic colorectal cancer pretreated by at least one line of standard chemotherapy.
* Restaging scan within 28 days before the first study drug intake.
* During the dose-escalation part, patient must have at least one evaluable or measurable metastatic lesion; and during the expansion part, patient must have at least one measurable metastatic lesion.
* Life expectancy of more than 3 months.
* Performance status Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG): 0-1.
* Adequate bone marrow, liver, and kidney function.
* For patients who will receive bevacizumab: coagulation parameters in normal limit or in therapeutic limit for patients treated with anticoagulant.
* For patients who will receive nivolumab: patients eligible for tumour biopsy and who agree to have two sequential biopsies during the study.
* Women of childbearing potential must have a negative pregnancy test. Female participants of childbearing potential and male participants with partners of childbearing potential must agree to use highly effective birth control method. Women and female partners using hormonal contraceptive must also use a barrier method.
* Capacity to take oral tablet(s) without difficulty.
* Has provided written informed consent.
* Is willing and able to comply with scheduled visits and study procedures.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Grade 2 or higher peripheral neuropathy.
* During expansion part, patients who had recurrence during or within 6 months of completion of the adjuvant chemotherapy with oxaliplatin.
* Patients with brain metastases or leptomeningeal metastasis.
* Other malignancy within the last 3 years (except for basal cell carcinoma or a non-invasive/in situ cervical cancer)
* Has had certain other recent treatment e.g. major surgery, field radiation, participation in another interventional study, within the specified time frames prior to study drug administration.
* Certain serious illnesses or serious medical conditions
* For patients who will receive bevacizumab: history of allergic reactions/hypersensitivity to bevacizumab, to any components used in the formulation, to Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell products or other recombinant human or humanised antibodies.
* Grade 3 or higher hypersensitivity reaction to oxaliplatin or garde 1-2 hypersensitivity reaction to oxaliplatin not controlled with premedication.
* Patient previously treated by S 95005 or history of allergic reactions attributed to compounds of similar composition to S 95005 or any of its excipient. Patient with hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, the Lapp lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption.
* Any condition that, in the judgment of the Investigator, may affect the patient's ability to understand and sign the informed consent and fully comply with all study procedure.
* Pregnancy or breast feeding.
* For patients planned to receive nivolumab:

  * Patients with active autoimmune disease or hist

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
The main purpose of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability and to determine the recommended phase 2 dose of S 95005 given in combination with oxaliplatin in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.

Detailed Description:
This is a one-arm study, which will be conducted in 2 parts:

* A dose-escalation part to determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of S 95005 in combination with oxaliplatin.
* An expansion part in patients treated at the recommended dose defined in the dose escalation part of this study to evaluate the safety, PK, and preliminary efficacy of S 95005 in combination with oxaliplatin and either bevacizumab or nivolumab.