STUDY: A 12-month, Open Label, Randomised, Effectiveness Study to Evaluate Fluticasone Furoate (FF, GW685698)/Vilanterol (VI, GW642444) Inhalation Powder Delivered Once Daily Via a Novel Dry Powder Inhaler (NDPI) Compared With the Existing COPD Maintenance Therapy Alone in Subjects With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)
NCT ID: NCT01551758
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE3
Design: PARALLEL
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 2802

Arm: FF/VI (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Existing Maintenance Therapy (OTHER)
Intervention: FF/VI
Intervention: Existing Maintenance Therapy

PRIMARY: Mean Annual Rate of Moderate or Severe COPD Exacerbations
  Time: Up to 54 weeks
  Desc: Mean annual rate of moderate or severe COPD exacerbations during treatment were assessed. Moderate exacerbation: participant received exacerbation-related prescription of oral corticosteroids and/ or antibiotic (with/without National Health Service \[NHS\] contact) not requiring hospitalisation. Severe exacerbation: an exacerbation-related hospitalisation. Analysis method was Generalised Linear Mo

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

Subjects eligible for enrolment in the study must meet all of the following criteria:

1. Type of subject: Subjects with documented GP diagnosis of COPD, and currently receiving maintenance therapy
2. Informed consent: Subjects must be able to provide informed consent, have their consent signed and dated. Subjects must be able to complete the electronic subject questionnaires or allow a proxy to do so on their behalf.
3. Gender and Age: Male or female subjects aged ≥40 years of age at Visit 1 A female is eligible to enter and participate in the study if she is of: Non-child bearing potential (i.e. physiologically incapable of becoming pregnant, including any female who is post-menopausal or surgically sterile). Surgically sterile females are defined as those with a documented hysterectomy and/or bilateral oophorectomy or tubal ligation. Post-menopausal females are defined as being amenorrhoeic for greater than 1 year with an appropriate clinical profile, e.g. age appropriate, history of vasomotor symptoms. However in questionable cases, a blood sample with FSH \> 40MIU/ml and estradiol \<40pg/ml (\<140 pmol/L) is confirmatory. Or child bearing potential has a negative urine pregnancy test at Visit 2, and agrees to one of the highly effective and acceptable contraceptive methods used consistently and correctly (i.e. in accordance with the approved product label and the instructions of the physician for the duration of the study - Visit 2 to the end of the study).
4. Subjects with Exacerbation History
5. Current COPD Maintenance Therapy

Exclusion Criteria:

Subjects meeting any of the following criteria must not be enrolled in the study:

1. Subjects with any life threatening condition (e.g. low probability (in the opinion of the GP/Investigator) of 12 month survival due to severity of COPD or co-morbid condition) at the point of entry into the study.
2. Other diseases/abnormalities: Subjects with historical or current evidence of uncontrolled or

SUMMARY:
This study is designed to compare the effectiveness and safety of Fluticasone Furoate/Vilanterol Inhalation Powder (100mcg Fluticasone Furoate ((FF), GW685698)/25mcg Vilanterol ((VI), GW642444)) delivered once daily via a Novel Dry Powder Inhaler (NDPI) compared with the existing COPD maintenance therapy over twelve months in subjects diagnosed with COPD. This is a Phase III multi-centre, randomised open label study. Subjects who meet the eligibility criteria are randomised and will enter a 12 month treatment period.