STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00470834
Brief Title: Prostate Cancer Study In Men Who Have Failed First-Line Androgen Deprivation Therapy
Official Title: A Randomized Double-Blind Parallel Group Study Comparing Casodex (or Generic Equivalent) 50mg Plus Placebo to Casodex (or Generic Equivalent) 50mg Plus Dutasteride 3.5mg Administered for 18 Months to Men With Prostate Cancer Who Have Failed First-Line Androgen Deprivation Therapy (Assessed by Rising PSA) Followed by a Two-Year Extension Phase
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2007-05
Completion Date: 2013-02

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE4
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 127

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Arm 1
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: 50 mg bicalutamide and 3.5 mg Dutasteride (IP)
  Arm 2: Arm 2
    Type: PLACEBO_COMPARATOR
    Description: 50 mg bicalutamide and placebo

INTERVENTIONS
  1. dutasteride (DRUG)
     Description: 0.5mg dutasteride (Investigation Product)
  2. placebo (DRUG)
     Description: making placebo
  3. bicalutamide (DRUG)
     Description: 50 mg Casodex or generic equivalent

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Time to Disease Progression
     Time Frame: Interval of time between the date of the start of treatment and the date of disease progression (up to Study Month 42)
     Description: Time to disease progression (PD) is defined as the interval of time between the date of the start of treatment and the date of PD. PD is defined as prostate specific antigen (PSA) progression from Baseline (PSA value is 25% and at least 2 nanograms per milliliter \[ng/mL\] above Baseline, confirmed by a second PSA value); PSA progression from nadir, without a 50% decrease from Baseline (PSA value is 25% and at least 2 ng/mL above nadir, confirmed by a second PSA value); PSA progression from nadir, with a 50% or more decrease from Baseline (PSA value is 50% and at least 2 ng/mL above nadir, confirmed by a second PSA value); metastatic disease (radiographic evidence of metastatic disease); death due to prostate cancer; or the receipt of post-Baseline rescue medication. PSA confirmation was not required if no subsequent PSA values were available. Participants who did not experience an event were censored at the date of the latest follow-up information.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Time to Treatment Failure
     Time Frame: Interval of time between the date of the start of treatment and the date of treatment failure (up to Study Month 42)
  2. Number of Participants With PSA Response
     Time Frame: Time from Baseline PSA measurement until the first PSA measurement with a 50% or greater reduction in PSA values (up to Study Month 42)
  3. Change From Baseline in Total PSA at Months 6, 12, 18, 21, and 42
     Time Frame: Baseline and Months 6, 12, 18, 21, and 42
  4. Number of Participants With Metastatic Disease
     Time Frame: Interval of time between the date of the start of treatment and the date of radiographic evidence of metastatic disease (up to Study Month 42)

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: MALE
Minimum Age: 40 Years
Maximum Age: 90 Years
Criteria:
Inclusion criteria:

* Men ≥40 and ≤90 years of age
* Must have asymptomatic prostate cancer that has progressed during androgen deprivation therapy (rising PSA). PSA progression must have occurred after first-line treatment with GnRH analogues ( e.g. leuprolide, goserelin) or orchiectomy. PSA progression is defined by three rises in PSA each measured at least 4 weeks apart within the previous year.
* Serum PSA ≥2 and ≤20ng/ml from central laboratory. One PSA retest from central laboratory is allowed if the value is \<2 or \>20ng/ml; or if the PSA value is not consistent with the previous rising PSA values that determined progression while on a GnRH analogue.
* Serum Testosterone \<50ng/ml from central laboratory.
* Non-metastatic prostate cancer as confirmed on prior bone scan performed within 8 weeks of screening.
* Expected survival ≥ 2 years
* ECOG Performance status 0, 1, or 2

Exclusion criteria:

* Additional hormonal therapy (excluding the current use of a GnRH analogue) within the past 6 months of:
* Estrogens (e.g. megestrol, medroxyprogesterone, cyproterone, DES)
* Drugs with antiandrogenic properties (e.g., spironolactone if \>50mg/day, flutamide, bicalutamide\*, ketoconazole\*\*, progestational agents)

  \*The use of an antiandrogen during GnRH analogue induction for \<6 weeks is acceptable, but none within the 3 months prior to study entry.

  \*\*The use of topical ketoconazole is permitted prior to and during the study. NOTE: Use of dietary and herbal supplements (e.g., selenium, Vitamin E, saw palmetto), excluding daily vitamins, during the study is discouraged, but not prohibited. All dietary and herbal supplement usage will be recorded in the eCRF.
* Treatment with oral glucocorticoids during the 3 months prior to randomization or expectation of their use during the study.
* Prior chemotherapy for prostate cancer. (prior prostatectomy or radiotherapy to the prostate are allowed)
* Prostate surgery including TUNA, TURP, TUIP, laser treatment, thermotherapy, balloon dilatation, prosthesis, and cryosurgical ablation within 2 months prior to enrollment.
* Current and/or previous use of the following medications:
* Finasteride (Proscar, Propecia), or Dutasteride (GI198745, AVODART) exposure within 6 months prior to study entry
* Anabolic steroids (within 6 months prior to study entry)
* Participation in any investigational or marketed drug trial within the 30 days prior to the first dose of study drug or anytime during the study period.
* Any unstable serious co-existing medical condition(s) including but not limited to myocardial infarction, coronary bypass surgery, unstable angina, cardiac arrhythmias, clinically evident congestive heart failure, or cerebrovascular accident within 6 months prior to Screening visit; uncontrolled diabetes; or peptic ulcer disease which is uncontrolled by medical management.
* Abnormal liver function test greater than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal for alanine aminotransferase \[ALT\], aspartat

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
Dutasteride inhibits the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) the male hormone that leads to benign prostate growth. By blocking the conversion of testosterone to DHT, dutasteride could allow bicalutamide to be a more effective anti-androgen thus prolonging bicalutamide's efficacy.