STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00731822
Brief Title: A Study To Assess Single Dosage Strength Of GW685698/GW642444 Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)
Official Title: Study HZC111348, a Repeat-dose Study of GW685698/GW642444 Inhalation Powder Versus Placebo in the Treatment of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE2
Enrollment: 60


Primary 1: Change From Baseline in Weighted Mean Heart Rate 0-4 Hours Post-dose at the End of the 28-day Treatment Period
  Time: Baseline to Day 28
Primary 2: Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event (AE) and Any Serious Adverse Event (SAE) Throughout the Study
  Time: From Baseline (Day 1) until Follow-up (up to Study Day 37)

ELIGIBILITY
Inclusion Criteria:

Subjects eligible for enrollment in the study must meet all of the following criteria:

1. Informed consent: Subjects must give their signed written informed consent to participate.
2. Gender: Male subjects or female subjects of non-child bearing potential (e.g. post-menopausal or surgical sterile) 40 - 80 years of age at screening (Visit 1).

   * Post-menopausal females are defined as being amenorrhoeic for greater than 2 years with an appropriate clinical profile, e.g. age appropriate, history of vasomotor symptoms. However if indicated this can be confirmed by estradiol and FSH levels consistent with menopause (according to laboratory ranges) at screening (Visit 1).
   * Surgically sterile females are defined as those with a documented (medical report verification) hysterectomy and/or bilateral oophorectomy or Tubal Ligation.
   * Furthermore, male subjects in this study must use double-barrier (condom/spermicide) birth control methods or abstain from sexual intercourse with female partners who are pregnant, lactating, or able to bear children in addition to any birth control methods the female partner is using, from the first dose of the study medication until 90 days after the last dose of the study medication.
3. COPD diagnosis: Subjects with a clinical history of COPD in accordance with the following definition by the American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society \[Celli, 2004\] :

   COPD is a preventable and treatable disease characterized by airflow limitation that is not fully reversible. The airflow limitation is usually progressive and is associated with an abnormal inflammatory response of the lungs to noxious particles or gases, primarily caused by cigarette smoking. Although COPD affects the lungs, it also produces significant systemic consequences.
4. Tobacco use: subjects with a current or previous history of ≥ 10 pack-years of cigarette smoking at screening (Visit 1). Previous smokers are defined as those who have st

SUMMARY
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of a single dosage strength of GW685698/GW642444 in subjects with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).