STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
Study: A Phase 2 Study of the MET RTK Inhibitor GSK1363089 (Formerly XL880) in Subjects With Recurrent or Metastatic Squamous Cell Cancer of the Head and Neck
NCT ID: NCT00725764
Phase: PHASE2
Enrollment: 14
Endpoint Type: ORR

PRIMARY ANALYSIS
  Outcome: Number of Participants Achieving Best Overall Response
  Time Frame: N/A
  Description: Best overall response was assessed by the investigator per response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST). Per RECIST v1.0 for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR. Tumor size was recorded at Baseline, and tumor response were recorded approximately every 8 weeks. Tumor response were classified by the invest
  Outcome: Percentage of Participants With Objective Response Rate (ORR)
  Time Frame: N/A
  Description: ORR was defined as the proportion of participants achieving best overall response of confirmed CR or PR divided by the total number of participants who received treatment. Per RECIST v1.0 for target lesions and assessed by MRI: CR, Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response PR, \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; OR = CR + PR. Participants were evaluated for tumor response per RECIST. Percentage of participants with ORR were reported.
  Outcome: Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs)
  Time Frame: N/A
  Description: Data for number of participants who presented one or more adverse events (serious or non serious) was reported. An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence (MO) in a participant temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product (MP), whether or not considered related to the MP and can therefore be any unfavourable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with its use. The SAE was any untoward MO that, at any dose, 
  Outcome: Number of Participants With Abnormalities of Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Grade 3 in Laboratory Parameters (Clinical Chemistry and Hematology)
  Time Frame: N/A
  Description: The National Cancer Institute -CTCAE displays Grades 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for each toxicity based on the following general guideline: Grade 1: Mild AE, Grade 2: Moderate AE, Grade 3: Severe AE, Grade 4: Life-threatening or disabling AE and Grade 5: Death related to AE. Number of participants with abnormalities of CTCAE grade 3 in clinical chemistry parameters: alanine aminotransferase (ALT), γ-glutamyl transferase (GGT), phosphate, low sodium and hematology p
  Outcome: Number of Participants With Abnormalities in Urinalysis
  Time Frame: N/A
  Description: Urinalysis parameters like appearance, color, pH, specific gravity, ketones, protein, glucose, bilirubin, nitrite, urobilinogen, and occult blood were performed. Number of participants with abnormalities are reported. In case of no abnormalities observed then it is reported as zero.
