STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00508365
Brief Title: Evaluation of Potential for Orthostatic Hypotension in Elderly Hypertensives
Official Title: A Study to Evaluate the Potential Incidence of Orthostatic Hypotension in Elderly Hypertensive Patients Following Administration of a Combination of COREG CR and Lisinopril
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2007-09-25
Completion Date: 2008-06-03

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE1
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: CROSSOVER
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: N/A
Enrollment: 62

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Subjects receiving treatment sequence AB
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Eligible subjects will receive treatment sequence AB; A= Placebo to match COREG CR 20 milligrams once daily plus lisinopril 10 milligrams once daily (Days 1-7). Placebo to match COREG CR 40 milligrams once daily plus lisinopril 10 milligrams once daily (Days 8-14). B=COREG CR 20 milligrams once daily plus lisinopril 10 milligrams once daily (Days 1-7). COREG CR 40 milligrams once daily plus lisinopril 10 milligrams once daily (Days 8-14).
  Arm 2: Subjects receiving treatment sequence BA
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Eligible subjects will receive treatment sequence BA; B=COREG CR 20 milligrams once daily plus lisinopril 10 milligrams once daily (Days 1-7). COREG CR 40 milligrams once daily plus lisinopril 10 milligrams once daily (Days 8-14). A= Placebo to match COREG CR 20 milligrams once daily plus lisinopril 10 milligrams once daily (Days 1-7). Placebo to match COREG CR 40 milligrams once daily plus lisinopril 10 milligrams once daily (Days 8-14).

INTERVENTIONS
  1. Carvedilol CR capsules (DRUG)
     Description: The carvedilol micropump (COREG) CR cpsules will be available with doses of 20 milligrams and 40 milligrams administered orally once daily.
  2. Placebo (DRUG)
     Description: Placebo capsules to match each dose level will be provided.
  3. Lisinopril (DRUG)
     Description: Lisinopril will be available as 10 milligrams tablets administered orally once daily.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Assessment of orthostasis 6 hours post dose on day 1, 7, 8, 14 in each dosing session
     Time Frame: 6 hours post dose on day 1, 7, 8, 14 in each dosing session
     Description: N/A
  2. To evaluate the incidence of orthostatic hypotension (defined as a decrease in SBP of ≥20 mmHg and/or a decrease in DBP of ≥10 mmHg in changing from the supine to the standing position) following co-administration of COREG CR and lisinopril
     Time Frame: Up to Day 14
     Description: N/A

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Relationship of concentration of drug to events 6 hours post dose on day 1, 7, 8, 14 in each dosing session
     Time Frame: 6 hours post dose on day 1, 7, 8, 14 in each dosing session
  2. Relationship of concentration of drug to events
     Time Frame: 6 hours post dose on day 1, 7, 8, 14 in each dosing session
  3. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the co-administration of COREG CR and lisinopril
     Time Frame: Up to Day 24
  4. To evaluate the relationship between the plasma concentrations of carvedilol and lisinopril and the occurrence of orthostatic hypotension following co-administration of COREG CR and lisinopril
     Time Frame: 6 hours post dose on day 1, 7, 8, 14 in each dosing session
  5. To evaluate the effects of COREG CR on plasma renin activity
     Time Frame: Up to Day 14

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 65 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Males or females who are ≥ 65 years of age
* Body mass index (BMI) between 24 and 37 kg/m2 where: BMI = (weight in kg)/ (height in meters)2
* Subjects must have a documented history of essential hypertension and must be stable on treatment with an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin II receptor antagonist or renin antagonist and no more than one other antihypertensive medication at least 3 months before screening with a sitting SBP\<180 mmHg and DBP\<110 mmHg.
* All subjects must be able to be safely (in the opinion of the Investigator) withdrawn or down-titrated from all antihypertensive treatment(s) and transitioned to lisinopril 10 mg OD for the two-week run-in phase.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Any clinically relevant abnormality identified on the screening history, physical or laboratory examination, or any other medical condition or circumstance making the volunteer unsuitable for participation in the study
* Subject who metabolizes carvedilol poorly based on CYP2D6 genotype as determined at screening
* Subject has persistent hyperkalemia or history of hyperkalemia resulting from either Type IV RTA (renal tubular acidosis) or previous treatment with an ACE inhibitor, ARB or renin inhibitor.
* Subject has malignant (accelerated) hypertension, history of malignant hypertension, or history of secondary forms of hypertension
* Subject has advanced hypertensive retinopathy (Keith Wagner Grade IV)
* Subject has a history of hepatic impairment (characterized by prolonged prothrombin time/low concentrations of albumin) and/or renal insufficiency (subjects with an estimated CrCl ≤ 30 mL/min by Cockroft-Gault must be excluded). CrCL = \[140-ageCr\]\[weight/70\] x 0.85 (if female); Cr in mg/dL; Weight in kg
* Subject is being treated for diabetes mellitus
* Subject has a history of angioedema
* Subject has been under treatment with 3 or more antihypertensive medications. (NOTE: A combination drug containing two antihypertensive agents represents two antihypertensive medications.)
* Subject has been under treatment with HCTZ \> 12.5 mg/day
* Subject is receiving ongoing treatment or is anticipated to receive treatment with any of the following medications during the study:

  * monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAO)
  * any Class I or III antiarrhythmic
  * alpha-adrenergic receptor blockers
  * beta-2-adrenergic agonists
  * all antidepressants including SSRIs
  * lithium
  * medications known to be inhibitors/inducers of cytochrome P-450 2D6 should be discontinued for at least 14 days or 5 half-lives \[which ever is longer\] prior to the first day of the run-in period
* Treatment with any over-the-counter medications , herbal and dietary supplements, as well as grapefruit-containing products within 7 days or 5 half-lives (whichever is longer) prior to first day of run-in period through the end of the study unless approved by the PI and GSK medical monitor. Standard vitamins and/or daily multi-vitamins are permitted, however herbal vitamins sh

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
This is a multi-center, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, 2-session crossover study to evaluate the incidence of orthostatic hypotension in elderly hypertensive subjects following co-administration of carvedilol CR and lisinopril.