STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT01358825
Brief Title: Study to Evaluate Antibody Persistence in Children Previously Vaccinated With Infanrix Hexa™ or Infanrix-IPV/Hib™
Official Title: Antibody Persistence in Children Previously Vaccinated With Three Doses of Infanrix Hexa™ or Infanrix-IPV/Hib™
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2011-05-30
Completion Date: 2011-07-15

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE4
Allocation: NON_RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: PREVENTION
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 58

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Infanrix hexa Group
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Subjects aged 5 years previously vaccinated at 3, 5 and 11 months of age with 3 doses of Infanrix hexa™ (DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib) administered intramuscularly in study NCT00307034.
  Arm 2: Infanrix-IPV/Hib Group
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Subjects aged 5 years previously vaccinated at 3, 5 and 11 months of age with 3 doses of Infanrix-IPV/Hib™ (DTPa-IPV/Hib) administered intramuscularly in study NCT00307034.

INTERVENTIONS
  1. Blood Sampling (PROCEDURE)
     Description: A blood sample will be taken at 5 years of age, after vaccination in the primary study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of Seroprotected Subjects Against Anti-diphtheria (Anti-D) and Anti-tetanus (Anti-T).
     Time Frame: At Day 0
     Description: A seroprotected subject is a subject with anti-D/anti-T antibody concentrations greater than (≥) or equal to 0.1 international units per milliliter (IU/mL)
  2. Concentrations of Antibodies Against Anti-D and Anti-T
     Time Frame: At Day 0
     Description: Concentrations are presented as geometric mean concentrations (GMCs), expressed in milliinternational units per millilitre (mIU/mL).
  3. Number of Subjects With Anti-pertussis Toxoid (Anti-PT), Antifilamentous Haemagglutinin (Anti-FHA) and Anti-pertactin (Anti-PRN) Antibody Concentrations ≥5 ELISA Units Per Milliliter (EL.U/mL).
     Time Frame: At Day 0
     Description: Cut-off values assessed were greater than or equal to 5 ELISA units per millilitre (EL.U/mL) in the sera of subjects seronegative before vaccination.
  4. Concentrations of Antibodies Against Anti-PT, Anti-FHA and Anti-PRN.
     Time Frame: At Day 0
     Description: Concentrations are presented as geometric mean concentrations (GMCs), expressed in ELISA units per millilitre (EL.U/mL).
  5. Number of Seroprotected Subjects Against Anti-hepatitis B Surface Antigen (Anti-HBs).
     Time Frame: At Day 0
     Description: Seroprotection = anti-HBs antibody concentration ≥ 10 milli-international units per milliliter (mIU/mL).
  6. Concentrations of Antibodies Against Anti-HBs.
     Time Frame: At Day 0
     Description: Concentrations are presented as geometric mean concentrations (GMCs), expressed in milliinternational units per millilitre (mIU/mL).
  7. Number of Seroprotected Subjects Against Anti-polyribosyl Ribitol Phosphate (Anti-PRP).
     Time Frame: At Day 0
     Description: A seroprotected subject is a subject with anti-PRP antibody concentrations ≥ 0.15 micrograms per milliliter (μg/mL)
  8. Concentrations of Antibodies Against Anti-PRP.
     Time Frame: At Day 0
     Description: Concentrations are presented as geometric mean concentrations (GMCs), expressed in micrograms per millilitre (μg/mL).
  9. Number of Subjects With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs).
     Time Frame: During the entire study period (up to Day 46)
     Description: Assessed SAEs include medical occurrences that result in death, are life-threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization or result in disability/incapacity.
  10. Number of Subjects With Anti-HBs Antibody Concentrations ≥ 6.2 mIU/mL
     Time Frame: At Day 0
     Description: Cut-off values assessed were greater than or equal to 6.2 milliinternational units per millilitre ( mIU/mL) in the sera of subjects seronegative before vaccination.

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 5 Years
Maximum Age: 6 Years
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Subjects who had received 3 doses of Infanrix hexa™ or Infanrix-IPV/Hib™ in study NCT00307034.
* Subjects who the investigator believes that parent(s)/Legally Acceptable Representative(s) LAR(s) can and will comply with the requirements of the protocol.
* A male or female subject aged 5 years at the time of study entry.
* Written informed consent obtained from the parent(s)/LAR(s) of the subject.
* Healthy subjects as established by medical history and clinical examination before entering into the study.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Child in care.
* Concurrently participating in another clinical study, at any time during the study period, in which the subject has been or will be exposed to an investigational or a non-investigational product.
* Use of any investigational or non-registered product within 30 days prior to blood sampling.
* Evidence of previous or intercurrent diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, polio, hepatitis B, and Hib vaccination or disease since the study NCT00307034, with the exception of hepatitis B vaccination in the DTPa-IPV/Hib group.
* Administration of immunoglobulins and/or any blood products within the 3 months prior to blood sampling.
* Any confirmed or suspected immunosuppressive or immunodeficient condition, based on medical history and physical examination.
* Family history of congenital or hereditary immunodeficiency.

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
The aim of this study is to assess antibody persistence in infants who received three doses of Infanrix hexa™ (DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib) or Infanrix-IPV/Hib™ (DTPa-IPV/Hib) at 3, 5 and 11 months of age in study NCT00307034.