STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT02989857
Brief Title: Study of AG-120 in Previously Treated Advanced Cholangiocarcinoma With IDH1 Mutations (ClarIDHy)
Official Title: A Phase 3, Multicenter, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-controlled Study of AG-120 in Previously-treated Subjects With Nonresectable or Metastatic Cholangiocarcinoma With an IDH1 Mutation
Sponsor: Servier

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2017-02-20
Completion Date: 2021-05-17

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE3
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 187

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: AG-120
    Type: ACTIVE_COMPARATOR
    Description: Participants received AG-120 500 mg, tablet, orally, once a day (QD) in each 28-day treatment cycle, until occurrence of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, confirmed pregnancy, death, subject withdrawal, lost to follow-up, or the sponsor ended the study for up to approximately 45 months.
  Arm 2: Placebo
    Type: PLACEBO_COMPARATOR
    Description: Participants received AG-120 matched placebo, orally, QD in each 28-day treatment cycle, until occurrence of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, confirmed pregnancy, death, subject withdrawal, lost to follow-up or the sponsor ended the study for up to approximately 7 months. Participants who experienced disease progression and received placebo were allowed to cross over and receive AG-120.
  Arm 3: After Cross over to AG-120
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Participants who experienced disease progression and received placebo were allowed to cross over to receive AG-120 500 mg, tablet, orally, QD in each 28-day treatment cycle for up to approximately 32 months.

INTERVENTIONS
  1. AG-120 (DRUG)
     Description: Tablet administered orally
  2. Placebo (DRUG)
     Description: Tablet administered orally

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Progression Free Survival (PFS) as Determined by the Independent Radiology Committee (IRC)
     Time Frame: From the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause (Up to approximately 2 years)
     Description: PFS is defined as the time from date of randomization to the date of first documented disease progression as assessed by the IRC using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] v1.1, or date of death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was defined as greater than or equal to (≥)20 percent (%) increase in sum of the diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum diameter recorded since the treatment started. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm) or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs)
     Time Frame: From first dose of study drug up to 28 days after last dose for each intervention (Up to approximately 4 Years)
  2. Percentage of Participants Who Experienced Laboratory Abnormalities Reported as Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events
     Time Frame: From first dose of the study drug up to end of treatment visit for each intervention (Up to approximately 4 Years)
  3. Percentage of Participants With Clinically Significant Grade 3 or Higher Vital Signs AEs
     Time Frame: From first dose of the study drug up to end of treatment visit for each intervention (Up to approximately 4 Years)
  4. Percentage of Participants With Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status
     Time Frame: Baseline
  5. Percentage of Participants Who Required At Least One Concomitant Medications During the Treatment
     Time Frame: From first dose of study drug up to 28 days after last dose (Up to approximately 4 Years)

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Be ≥18 years of age.
2. Have a histopathological diagnosis (fresh or banked tumor biopsy sample, preferably collected within the last 3 years) of nonresectable or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma and are not eligible for curative resection, transplantation, or ablative therapies.
3. Have documented IDH1 gene-mutated disease (from a fresh tumor biopsy or the most recent banked tumor tissue available) based on central laboratory testing (R132C/L/G/H/S mutation variants tested).
4. Have an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (ECOG PS) score of 0 or 1
5. Have an expected survival of ≥3 months.
6. Have at least one evaluable and measurable lesion as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. Participants who have received prior local therapy (including but not limited to embolization, chemoembolization, radiofrequency ablation, or radiation therapy) are eligible provided measurable disease falls outside of the treatment field or within the field and has shown ≥20% growth in size since post-treatment assessment.
7. Have documented disease progression following at least 1 and no more than 2 prior systemic regimens for advanced disease (nonresectable or metastatic). Participants must have received at least 1 gemcitabine- or 5-FU-containing regimen for advanced cholangiocarcinoma. Participants who have received systemic adjuvant chemotherapy will be permitted provided there is documented disease progression during or within 6 months of completing the therapy.

Exclusion criteria:

1. Received a prior IDH inhibitor.
2. Received systemic anticancer therapy or an investigational agent \<2 weeks prior to Day 1 (washout from prior immune based anticancer therapy is 4 weeks). In addition, the first dose of study treatment should not occur before a period ≥5 half-lives of the investigational agent has elapsed.
3. Received radiotherapy to metastatic sites of disease \<2 weeks prior to Day 1.
4. Underwent hepatic radiation, chemoembolization, and radiofrequency ablation \<4 weeks prior to Day 1.
5. Have known symptomatic brain metastases requiring steroids. Participants with previously diagnosed brain metastases are eligible if they have completed their treatment and have recovered from the acute effects of radiation therapy or surgery prior to study entry, have discontinued corticosteroid treatment for these metastases for at least 4 weeks and have radiographically stable disease for at least 3 months prior to study entry. Note: up to 10 mg per day of prednisone equivalent will be allowed.

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
Study AG120-C-005 is a Phase 3, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of orally administered AG-120. Participants, all personnel involved in the evaluation of participants' response to treatment (e.g., Investigators, study coordinators, study pharmacists), and designated Sponsor team members will be blinded to study treatment. Participants are required to have a histologically-confirmed diagnosis of isocitrate dehydrogenase-1 (IDH1) gene-mutated cholangiocarcinoma that is not eligible for curative resection, transplantation, or ablative therapies prior to enrollment. IDH1 mutation testing will be performed at participating investigative sites. Participants must have progression of disease and have received at least 1 but not more than 2 prior treatment regimens for advanced disease (nonresectable or metastatic). All participants must have received either a gemcitabine or a 5 fluorouracil (5-FU) based chemotherapy regimen.