STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT01258608
Brief Title: Study of Mapatumumab in Combination With Sorafenib in Subjects With Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Official Title: A Randomized, Multi-Center, Blinded, Placebo-Controlled Study Of Mapatumumab ([HGS1012], A Fully Monoclonal Antibody To TRAIL-R1) In Combination With Sorafenib As A First-Line Therapy In Subjects With Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2011-02-08
Completion Date: 2017-11-29

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 101

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Sorafenib plus mapatumumab
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Mapatumumab 30 milligrams (mg)/kilogram (kg) intravenously on Day 1 of each cycle (i.e. every 21 days) plus sorafenib 400 mg orally twice daily continuously in each cycle until radiologic disease progression or unacceptable toxicity
  Arm 2: Sorafenib plus Placebo
    Type: PLACEBO_COMPARATOR
    Description: Placebo intravenously on Day 1 of each cycle (i.e. every 21 days) plus sorafenib 400 mg orally twice daily continuously in each cycle until radiologic disease progression or unacceptable toxicity

INTERVENTIONS
  1. Mapatumumab (DRUG)
     Description: Mapatumumab will be supplied as a lyophilized formulation in 10 mL vials containing 100 mg mapatumumab for intravenous infusion at the dose of 30 mg/kg.
  2. Placebo (DRUG)
     Description: Normal saline solution for intravenous infusion will be administered as placebo for mapatumumab
  3. Sorafenib (DRUG)
     Description: Sorafenib will be supplied as tablets, each containing 274 mg sorafenib tosylate, equivalent to 200 mg of sorafenib, to be administered 400 mg (2 x 200 mg tablets) orally twice daily.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Time to Progression-Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) Assessment
     Time Frame: Randomization to maximum of 24.1 months
     Description: Time to progression is defined as the time from randomization to radiologic disease progression based on blinded independent review (BICR) of imaging scans using modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors assessment (mRECIST) for hepatocellular carcinoma. The primary analysis was performed using Kaplan Meier methods. The median time to progression is reported with one-sided 90% confidence interval. Analysis was performed on the modified Intent to Treat (mITT) Population which comprised of all randomized participants who received at least part of 1 dose of study agent (mapatumumab/placebo and/or sorafenib) with participants analyzed according to the groups to which they were randomized. NA indicates upper limit was not measurable as one-sided confidence interval is presented.

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Time to Progression-Investigator Assessment
     Time Frame: Randomization to maximum of 52.9 months
  2. Median Overall Survival
     Time Frame: Randomization to maximum of 52.9 months
  3. Progression Free Survival-BICR Assessment
     Time Frame: Randomization to maximum of 24.1 months
  4. Progression Free Survival-Investigator Assessment
     Time Frame: Randomization to maximum of 52.9 months
  5. Percentage of Participants With Objective Response-BICR Assessment
     Time Frame: Randomization to maximum of 24.1 months

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Child-Pugh Class A.
* Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) advanced stage (C) hepatocellular carcinoma, or BCLC intermediate stage (B) hepatocellular carcinoma if treatment with transarterial chemoembolization is not considered appropriate
* Measurable disease demonstrating intratumoral arterial enhancement by contrast enhanced computerized tomography (CT), with use of multislice scanners, or contrast enhanced dynamic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), with at least 1 tumor lesion that meets the following criteria: located in the liver; can be accurately measured in at least 1 dimension; well delineated area of viable, hypervascular (contrast enhancement in the arterial phase) tumor that is \>2 centimeter (cm) in the axial plane; suitable for repeat measurement; OR not previously treated with locoregional or systemic treatment unless the lesion shows a well-delineated area of viable (contrast enhancement in the arterial phase) tumor that is \>2 cm in the axial plane. (If the lesion is poorly demarcated or exhibits atypical enhancement as a result of the previous intervention, then it cannot be selected as a target lesion)
* Radiologic eligibility (measurable disease) must be must be confirmed by the BICR prior to randomization.
* Adequate bone marrow, renal and liver function as defined in the protocol.
* Performance status of 0, 1 or 2 on the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Scale
* Age 18 years or older
* Have the ability to understand the requirements of the study, provide written informed consent (including consent for the use and disclosure of research-related health information), and comply with the study and follow-up procedures.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Any co-morbid condition that in the judgment of the investigator renders the subject at high risk of treatment complications or reduces the possibility of assessing clinical effect.
* Received prior investigational or non-investigational cytotoxic chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, biological therapy (including but not limited to monoclonal antibodies, small molecules or other immunotherapy) to treat hepatocellular carcinoma.
* History of organ allograft.
* Previously received mapatumumab or sorafenib.
* Underwent resection, radiofrequency ablation, radiation or chemoembolization within 4 weeks before enrollment or not recovered from such treatments.
* Need for concomitant anticancer therapy (surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, immunotherapy, radiofrequency ablation) or other investigational agents during the study treatment period.
* Major surgery (i.e., the opening of a major body cavity, requiring the use of general anesthesia) within 4 weeks before enrollment; minor surgery (except for insertion of vascular access device) within 2 weeks before enrollment; or not yet recovered from the effects of the surgery.
* Systemic steroids within 1 week before enrollment except steroids used as part of an antiemetic regimen or maintenance-dose steroids for non-canc

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
Mapatumumab is a fully human, agonist monoclonal antibody that activates the cell death pathway in tumor cells by specifically binding to TRAIL-R1 with high affinity. Sorafenib, a multikinase inhibitor, is the standard of care for treatment of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The mechanisms of sorafenib and mapatumumab action suggest that these agents could interact synergistically. This is a Phase 2, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of mapatumumab in combination with sorafenib in subjects with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.