STUDY IDENTIFICATION
NCT ID: NCT00799903
Brief Title: The Stabilization of Atherosclerotic Plaque by Initiation of Darapladib Therapy Trial
Official Title: LPL100601, A Clinical Outcomes Study of Darapladib Versus Placebo in Subjects With Chronic Coronary Heart Disease to Compare the Incidence of Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events (MACE)
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

STUDY STATUS
Overall Status: COMPLETED
Start Date: 2008-12-01
Completion Date: 2013-10-17

STUDY DESIGN
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Phase: PHASE3
Allocation: RANDOMIZED
Intervention Model: PARALLEL
Primary Purpose: TREATMENT
Masking: QUADRUPLE
Enrollment: 15828

TREATMENT ARMS
  Arm 1: Darapladib
    Type: EXPERIMENTAL
    Description: Single daily oral tablet
  Arm 2: Placebo
    Type: PLACEBO_COMPARATOR
    Description: Single daily oral tablet

INTERVENTIONS
  1. Darapladib (DRUG)
     Description: Lp-PLA2 inhibitor administered in addition to standard therapy
  2. Placebo (DRUG)
     Description: Placebo administered in addition to standard therapy

PRIMARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of Participants With First Occurrence of Any Component of the Composite of Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events (Cardiovascular [CV] Death, Non-fatal Myocardial Infarction [MI] or Non-fatal Stroke) During the Time Period for Follow-up of CV Events
     Time Frame: From randomization until the End-of-Treatment visit or the last date on which endpoints were able to be assessed (up to 4.25 years/average of 3.51 years)
     Description: CV death=death due to a CV cause, which included but was not limited to deaths resulting from stroke, arrhythmia, sudden death (witnessed/unwitnessed), MI, heart failure, pulmonary embolism, peripheral arterial disease, or complications of a CV procedure. Deaths not clearly attributable to non-CV causes are considered to be CV deaths. Acute MI=evidence of myocardial necrosis in a clinical setting consistent with myocardial ischemia. Prior MI diagnosed post-randomization (e.g., silent MI)=the development of new pathological Q waves with/without symptoms OR imaging evidence of a region of loss of viable myocardium that is thinned and fails to contract, in the absence of a non-ischemic cause (pre-event imaging data required for verification of new abnormality), OR pathological findings of a healed/healing MI. Stroke=presence of a new focal neurologic deficit thought to be of vascular origin, with signs/symptoms lasting \>24 hours or results in death (in \<24 hours).

SECONDARY OUTCOMES
  1. Number of Participants With First Occurrence of Any Event in the Composite of Major Coronary Events (Coronary Heart Disease [CHD] Death, Non-fatal MI, or Urgent Coronary Revascularization [CR] for MI) During the Time Period for Follow-up (FU) of CV Events
     Time Frame: From randomization until the End-of-Treatment visit or the last date on which endpoints were able to be assessed (up to 4.25 years/average of 3.51 years)
  2. Number of Participants With First Occurrence of Any Event in the Composite of Total Coronary Events (CHD Death, Non-fatal MI, Hospitalization for Unstable Angina, or Any Coronary Revascularization Procedure) During Time Period for FU of CV Events
     Time Frame: From randomization until the End-of-Treatment visit or the last date on which endpoints were able to be assessed (up to 4.25 years/average of 3.51 years)
  3. Number of Participants With CV Death During the Time Period for Follow-up of CV Events
     Time Frame: From randomization until the End-of-Treatment visit or the last date on which endpoints were able to be assessed (up to 4.25 years/average of 3.51 years)
  4. Number of Participants With First Occurrence of MI (Fatal/Non-fatal) During the Time Period for Follow-up of CV Events
     Time Frame: From randomization until the End-of-Treatment visit or the last date on which endpoints were able to be assessed (up to 4.25 years/average of 3.51 years)
  5. Number of Participants With First Occurrence of Stroke (Fatal/Non-fatal) During the Time Period for Follow-up of CV Events
     Time Frame: From randomization until the End-of-Treatment visit or the last date on which endpoints were able to be assessed (up to 4.25 years/average of 3.51 years)

ELIGIBILITY
Sex: ALL
Minimum Age: 18 Years
Maximum Age: N/A
Criteria:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Men or women at least 18 years old. Women must be post-menopausal or using a highly effective method for avoidance of pregnancy.
* Current treatment with statin therapy unless the study doctor determines statins are not appropriate for the subject.
* Chronic coronary heart disease
* At least one of the following:
* At least 60 years old
* Diabetes requiring treatment with medication
* Low HDL cholesterol ("good cholesterol")
* Currently smoke cigarettes or stopped smoking within the past 3 months
* Diagnosed mild or moderate reduction in kidney function
* Cerebrovascular disease (carotid artery disease or ischemic stroke more than 3 months prior to study entry) OR peripheral arterial disease.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Planned coronary revascularization (such as stent placement or heart bypass) or any other major surgical procedure.
* Liver disease
* Severe reduction in kidney function OR removal of a kidney OR kidney transplant
* Severe heart failure
* Blood pressure higher than normal despite lifestyle changes and treatment with medications
* Any life-threatening disease expected to result in death within the next 2 years (other than heart disease)
* Severe asthma that is poorly controlled with medication
* Pregnant (Note: A pregnancy test will be performed on all non-sterile women prior to study entry)
* Previous severe allergic response to food, drink, insect stings, etc.
* Drug or alcohol abuse within the past 6 months OR mental/psychological impairment that may prevent the subject from complying with study procedures or understanding the goal and potential risks of participating in the study.
* Certain medications that may interfere with the study medication (these will be identified by the study doctor)
* Participation in a study of an investigational medication within the past 30 days
* Current participation in a study of an investigational device

STUDY DESCRIPTION
Brief Summary:
This study will test whether darapladib can safely lower the chances of having a cardiovascular event (such as a heart attack or stroke) in people with coronary heart disease.

Detailed Description:
Subjects who qualify for the study will be randomized 1:1 to either darapladib or placebo administered in addition to standard therapy. Following the baseline visit, subjects will be expected to return for clinic visits at 1 month, 3 months, and every 6 months until the end of the study. Average time in the study for an individual subject is expected to be about 3 years.