STUDY: Phase I/II, International, Multicentre, Open-label, Non-randomised, Non-comparative, Study Evaluating the Safety, Tolerability and Clinical Activity of Intravenously Administered S64315, a Selective Mcl-1 Inhibitor, in Combination With Azacitidine in Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukaemia (AML)
NCT ID: NCT04629443
Sponsor: Servier

Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Design: SINGLE_GROUP
Masking: NONE
Enrollment: 17

Arm: S64315 (also referred as MIK665) with azacitidine (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: S 64315 (also referred as MIK665) and azacitidine

PRIMARY: Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) (Phase I - Dose Escalation)
  Time: Day -13 to Cycle 1 Day 28 (each cycle is 28 days)
  Desc: Incidence of DLTs starting from the Lead-In Dose period to the end of the first cycle of treatment of S64315 in combination with azacitidine.
PRIMARY: Number of Adverse Events (AEs) and Severe AEs (Phase I - Dose Escalation)
  Time: an average of 6 months
  Desc: Incidence and severity of AEs according to NCI CTCAE v5.0
PRIMARY: Number of Serious Adverse Event (SAEs) and Fatal SAEs (Phase I - Dose Escalation)
  Time: Day -13 up to 30 calendar days after the patient's last study visit (an average of 6 months)
  Desc: Incidence and severity of SAEs according to NCI CTCAE v5.0

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

1. Patients aged ≥ 18 years
2. Patients with cytologically confirmed and documented de novo, secondary or therapy-related AML as defined by World Health Organization 2016 classification (Arber, 2016) excluding acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL, French American-British M3 classification) with: relapsed or refractory disease and without established alternative therapy, or secondary to MyeloDysplastic Syndrome and without established alternative therapy or, newly diagnosed AML, not previously treated for AML and who are not candidate for intensive chemotherapy due to age or comorbidities.
3. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status ≤ 2.
4. Adequate haematological, renal and hepatic functions based on the last assessment performed within 7 days prior to the first Investigational Medicinal Product administration.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Previous myeloproliferative syndrome (MPS).
2. Patients previously treated with any Mcl-1 inhibitor.
3. Patients who have not recovered from toxicity of previous anticancer therapy, including Grade ≥ 2 toxicity (except alopecia of any grade) according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event (NCI CTCAE) version 5.0, prior to the first IMP administration.
4. Severe or uncontrolled active acute or chronic infection.
5. Uncontrolled hepatitis B or C infection.
6. Known carriers of HIV antibodies, history of significant liver disease, active acute or chronic pancreatitis, active central nervous system disease.
7. Troponin \> ULN (Upper Limit of reference range) or Troponin T \> ULN if Troponin I cannot be assessed.
8. Clinically significant cardiac dysfunction (including New York Heart Association class ≥II heart failure, Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF) \< 50% as assessed by echocardiography (ECHO) or Multi-Gated Acquisition (MUGA) scan).
9. QT prolongation defined as QTc (QT interval corrected for heart rate) interval (corrected with Fridericia's formu

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability and clinical activity of the combination S64315 with azacitidine in patients with acute myeloid leukaemia.