STUDY: A Randomised Multi-Centre, Double-Blind, Double-Dummy, Two Way Cross-Over, Twelve Weeks Non-inferiority Study to Evaluate The Efficacy, Safety, and Tolerability of Combination Dry Powder of Fluticasone Propionate and Salmeterol 250/50 mcg Twice Daily Delivered Through a Capsule-Based Inhaler and a Multi-Dose Inhaler for the Treatment of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)
NCT ID: NCT01978145
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline

Phase: PHASE3
Design: CROSSOVER
Masking: DOUBLE
Enrollment: 665

Arm: Regimen A (EXPERIMENTAL)
Arm: Regimen B (EXPERIMENTAL)
Intervention: FSC
Intervention: Placebo

PRIMARY: Change From Baseline in Trough Morning Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 Second (FEV1) at Day 85
  Time: Baseline and Day 85 of each treatment period
  Desc: Pulmonary function was measured by FEV1, defined as the maximal amount of air that can be forcefully exhaled in one second. The trough FEV1 is defined as morning prebronchodilator and predose (12 hours after the last evening dose Day 84). Trough FEV1 was measured electronically by spirometer in the morning, before using the bronchodilator and predose, at Week 12 (Day 85) of each Treatment Period. 

ELIGIBILITY:
Inclusion Criteria:

* Male or female \>=40 and \<=80 years of age at the time of signing the informed consent.
* A female subject is eligible to participate if she is of:

Non-childbearing potential defined as premenopausal females with a documented tubal ligation or hysterectomy; or postmenopausal defined as 12 months of spontaneous amenorrhea (in questionable cases a blood sample with simultaneous follicle stimulating hormone \>40 milli international unit per milliliter (mIU/mL) and oestradiol \<40 picogram \[pg\]/mL \[\<147 picomole per liter (pmol/L)\] is confirmatory); females on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and whose menopausal status is in doubt will be required to use one of the contraception methods (i.e., in accordance with the approved product label and the instructions of the physician for the duration of the study from Screening to follow-up contact) if they wish to continue their HRT during the study. Otherwise, they must discontinue HRT to allow confirmation of postmenopausal status before study enrolment. For most forms of HRT, at least 2 to 4 weeks should elapse between the cessation of therapy and the blood draw; this interval depends on the type and dosage of HRT. After confirmation of their postmenopausal status, they can resume use of HRT during the study without use of a contraceptive method; child-bearing potential and is abstinent or agrees to use one of the contraception methods for an appropriate period of time (as determined by the product label or investigator) before the start of dosing to sufficiently minimise the risk of pregnancy at that point. Female subjects must agree to use contraception until at least 2 days post the last dose of study treatment; abstinence from penile-vaginal intercourse must be consistent with the preferred and usual lifestyle of the subject.

* COPD Diagnosis: An established clinical history of COPD in accordance with the following definition by the American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society.

SUMMARY:
This is a multi-centre, randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, two way cross-over, 12 weeks noninferiority study to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of FSC 250/50 mcg capsule-based inhaler and a multi-dose inhaler administered BID in adults with COPD. The primary objective of this study is to establish the non-inferiority of the efficacy of the FSC 250/50 mcg capsule-based inhaler compared to the FSC 250/50 mcg multi-dose inhaler administered BID. The study consists of 6 phases: Pre-screening, Screening/Run-in (3 weeks), Treatment Period 1 (12 weeks), Washout (minimum 4 weeks), Treatment Period 2 (12 weeks) and Follow-up (1 week). The total duration of the study for each subject will be at least 32 weeks.