Sample size ........................................................................................................................................ 22 
REFERENCES .......................................................................................................................................... 22 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE 
 
Food systems have been recognised to play a major role in climate change and it was estimated that 
they contributed to 34% of total anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions (GHGe) in 2015 (Crippa, 
2021). A French study evaluated that food accounted for 24% of the carbon footprint of households 
(Barbier et al., 2019). The largest contributor of these emissions is agriculture since it represents more 
than two-thirds of the food system’s GHGe (Barbier et al., 2019). The remaining third of the GHGe is 
due to transportation, consumption, industrial processes and packaging. A recent study showed that 
even if we were to stop fossil fuel emissions, the GHGe from food systems would not allow to stay 
under the targeted 1.5°C increase in global temperatures (Clark et al., 2020) highlighting the 
importance of cutting down agricultural GHGe. It has also been shown that the structure of our diets 
can be modified to reduce their carbon footprint and remain within a “safe operating space for 
humanity” as modelled by planetary boundaries (Willett et al., 2019). In particular, the reduction of 
meat and dairy consumption and the increase of plant-based food consumption are major levers to 
reduce the environmental impact of our diets (Hedenus et al., 2014; Scarborough et al., 2014).  
In developed countries particularly, where meat and dairy consumption is high, a shift towards more 
plant-based diets has been advocated by scientists for its beneficial impacts on health and the 
environment (Willett et al., 2019). However, this shift may not be easily achieved by consumers 
(Hartmann & Siegrist, 2017). This can be explained by the fact that eating meat is associated with 
pleasure and has strong cultural, social and personal values in our societies (Macdiarmid et al., 2016). 
The reluctance to reduce meat consumption may also be associated with the lack of knowledge of the 
environmental footprint of meat (Hartmann & Siegrist, 2017; Macdiarmid et al., 2016). The 
underestimation of the GHGe of different types of foods, especially animal products, has been 
previously highlighted and was considered as a potential area for interventions (Camilleri, 2019). In 
line with this idea, studies have shown that consumers with a higher knowledge regarding the impact 
of human behaviours on climate change declared higher intentions to adopt environmentally-friendly 
behaviours (Truelove & Parks, 2012). 
Environmental labels on food products have been described as potential drivers of the choice of 
environmentally-friendly products, as they may increase consumers’ knowledge about the 
environmental impact of the food products allowing consumers to make more informed decisions 
when choosing food products (Camilleri, 2019). In addition, consumers wish to be informed about the 
environmental footprint of the products that they consume (Gadema & Oglethorpe, 2011). However, 
when presented with those labels, many consumers found them hard to understand and to use 
(Gadema & Oglethorpe, 2011). Yet, the use of an environmental label is directly linked to its 
understanding (Grunert et al., 2014). Thus, there is a need of a clear environmental label that conveys 
key information regarding the environmental impact of foods and that is easily understood by 
consumers. 
Interventional studies using gold-standard design (i.e., randomised controlled trials) in realistic food 
purchasing environments are needed to demonstrate the effect of environmental labels on food 
choices (Vyth et al., 2012). Supermarkets are key environments to test the effect of food labelling 
interventions since they represented roughly 70% of the total food sales in 2019 in France (Insee, 
2019). Studies testing the effect of environmental labels on food choices carried out in realistic food 
purchasing settings, such as online supermarkets (Muller & Lacroix, 2019), real supermarkets (Pelletier 
et al., 2016; Vanclay et al., 2011; Vlaeminck et al., 2014) or restaurants (Brunner et al., 2018) are scarce. 
To our knowledge, only one randomised controlled trial, consisting in an online food shopping task for 
soups, tested the effect of an environmental label on food choices (Camilleri, 2019). 
 
 
4 
 
We will conduct a 2-arm randomised controlled trial (with and without labels) to test the effects of an 
environmental label on food choices in a virtual supermarket. Participants will take part in two 
shopping tasks: 1/ selection of 3 products to prepare a home-made dish, and 2/ selection of a ready-
to-eat dish. These two tasks will be repeated for two scenarios: 1/ participants will be asked to select 
the foods as they would do for a usual day (everyday scenario), and 2/ participants will be asked to 
select the foods for an environmentally friendly meal (environmentally-friendly scenario). This 
experimental design will allow to compare food choices in the presence vs. the absence of an 
environmental label and to investigate whether the label is informative and likely to help individuals 
to choose more environmental-friendly food options when explicitly asked to do so. In line with 
previous results showing that participants were more likely to choose pulses for a meal at a restaurant 
compared to a home-cooking scenario (Melendrez-Ruiz et al., 2019), we also hypothesise that it might 
be easier for a consumer to choose more environmentally friendly ready-to-eat dish than more 
environmentally friendly ingredients to cook it from scratch. 
On top of the lack of knowledge regarding the link between food systems and climate change, it has 
been emphasized that food choice motivations are key barriers for a shift towards more plant-based 
diets (Grunert et al., 2014). Many criteria are considered when purchasing foods and differ among 
consumers. In the French population taste, price and geographical origin of products are the key 
declared criteria influencing food choice (European Commission. Directorate General for Health and 
Food Safety, 2020). Environmental considerations such as the carbon footprint were poorly rated 
among food choice motives by UK supermarket shoppers (Gadema & Oglethorpe, 2011). Similarly, the 
environment was declared by only 15% of European respondents as an important driver influencing 
food choice (European Commission. Directorate General for Health and Food Safety. et al., 2020). An 
additional aim of the present study is to investigate the relationships between food choice motives 
and the effect of an environmental label on food choices.  
OBJECTIVES, OUTCOMES MEASURES AND HYPOTHESES 
 
OBJECTIVES 
OUTCOME MEASURES 
HYPOTHESES 
Primary objectives 
1.1 
To study the effect of an 
environmental label on 
the environmental impact 
of ingredients and ready-
to-eat dish choice in a 
virtual supermarket. 
 
Mean of PEF1 score for 100g of 
each ingredient selected and PEF 
score for 100g of the ready-to-eat 
dish in the “everyday scenario”.  
 
▪ 
An environmental label will lower 
the environmental impact of the 
food choices made by the 
participants compared to no 
label. 
▪ 
The effect of the environmental 
label will be greater when 
choosing a ready-to-eat dish 
compared to when choosing 
ingredients.  
1.2 
To investigate whether 
the environmental label is 
informative and likely to 
help individuals to choose 
environmentally friendly 
food options when they 
Mean PEF score for 100g of each 
ingredient selected and PEF score 
for 100g of the ready-to-eat dish in 
the “everyday scenario” and the 
“environmentally-friendly 
scenario”. 
▪ 
The reduction of the 
environmental impact of the 
foods chosen in the 
“environmentally-friendly 
scenario” compared to the 
“everyday scenario” will be 
greater for participants in the 
                                                          
1 PEF score is the “Product Environmental Footprint”. Details regarding its calculation is described in the 
paragraph “Creation of an environmental score” (page 9).  
 
 
5 
 
are encouraged to make 
environmentally friendly 
food choices. 
environmental label condition 
than in the no label condition.  
Secondary objectives 
2.1 
To study the effect of an 
environmental label on 
the nutritional quality, 
liking, familiarity, level of 
process and price of 
ingredients and ready-to-
eat dish choices in a 
virtual supermarket.  
The following variables will be 
calculated for the 3 ingredients 
(average) and for the ready-to-eat 
dish chosen in the “everyday 
scenario”: 
▪ 
FSA scores  
▪ 
Liking  
▪ 
Familiarity  
▪ 
NOVA score (only for the 
average of the 3 ingredients) 
▪ 
Price per calorie  
(continuous variables) 
 
▪ 
The environmental label will have 
an impact on the nutritional 
quality (FSA score), liking, 
familiarity, NOVA score and price 
of the foods chosen by the 
participants. 
2.2 
To investigate the 
relationships between 
food motives and the 
effect of an 
environmental label on 
ingredients and ready-to-
eat dish selection in a 
virtual supermarket. 
▪ 
Mean PEF score for 100g of 
each ingredient selected 
and PEF score for 100g of 
the ready-to-eat dish in the 
“everyday scenario”.  
▪ 
Level of ethical concern 
(questionnaire score) 
▪ 
The environmental label will be 
more effective in reducing the 
environmental impact of food 
choices in participants with 
higher levels of ethical concern 
when making food choices. 
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN 
 
This study will be a randomised controlled trial with two experimental arms:  
1/ No label (no label condition) 
2/ Environmental label (label condition) 
 
A 2-block randomisation sequence (male and female) of 1:1 will be generated to allocate each 

... [truncated]