Power analysis was estimated using 
treatment effect sizes from our sunZapp trials (Box 2). For this small-scale pilot test, we powered on the quasi-
experimental pretest-posttest comparison within the SS group, using a paired samples t-test. Assuming an 
effect size of 0.23 in sun protection pre to post and a correlation between the pre/post scores of 0.5, , we will 
need 181 participants with complete pre-post data to detect an effect of this size with power of 0.80 in a 2-
tailed p=0.05 test, which we factored up to 226 to account for 20% attrition. A small control group (n=50) will 
be included to see if a no-treatment control condition is acceptable to users and estimate follow-up rates for 
planning a randomized trial. It is not designed to test for statistical differences with the treatment group. 
Randomization should assure that the control group is similar on age, gender, and activity level.  
     Eight months are allotted for the field trial. Participants will be enrolled on a rolling basis and participate in 
SS for 4 months in the intervention condition. After pretesting, participants will receive sun protection 
messages from SS through emails/comments based on algorithm results from their profile and activity data 
(see 3C.4). All participants will complete posttest survey 4 months after randomization. They will receive links 
to both surveys via email and text and complete them using KB’s QuestionPro software. Surveys will contain 
measures of self-efficacy, response-efficacy, sun protection practices, sunburn (defined as skin red and/or 
painful from exposure to the sun in the past four months),96 and barriers to sun protection from the sunZapp 
and GSS trials (see Boxes 1 and 2), recall of SS messages (i.e., times they read the notifications; preferred type 
of message), and acceptability of receiving SS messages in future. We will assess physical activity behaviors at 
both pre- and posttest, using the validated International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ)97,98 long form 
and current activity data uploaded by participants to Strava. Intervention participants will be compensated 
$65 total ($30 pretest, $35 posttest) and control group participants $45 total ($20 pretest, $25 posttest).  
3C.7. Data Management and Analysis   
Focus groups will be recorded, transcribed, and analyzed using Atlas-ti© software by assigning codes that 
categorize views, themes, and opinions, rely on constant comparative analysis99 and a phenomenological 
approach.100,101 In the pilot field trial, the