sample size is in direct comparison to sample sizes of 
previous proof of concept studies regarding SCS for SCI.3-6  
 
6.0 Setting 
The data pertaining to Aim 1 for this study will be recorded in the operating room at MUSC. Data collected during 
Aims 2 and 3 will be recorded in the Locomotor Rehabilitation Laboratory and the Locomotor Energetics and 
Assessment Laboratory respectively, which are both located in the College of Health Professions Building C at 
MUSC. Coded and identifiable data will be stored electronically on a secure server in separate folders. Signed 
consent forms will be located in a locked cabinet in a locked laboratory in the Clinical Sciences Building at MUSC.  
 
7.0 Recruitment Methods 
As with all protocols in our lab, an eligibility screening checklist will be used prior to completing the informed 
consent process. The screening will not require access to PHI and will be allowed under a waiver of signed 
consent for the prescreening. The screening checklist will contain only the inclusion and exclusion criteria for the 
study. The purpose of the screening is to ensure that patients meet ALL inclusion and exclusion criteria for the 
study prior to executing the informed consent. This screening is extremely important and necessary as it may 
highlight information not available in the patient’s electronic medical record, particularly if there are criteria not 
addressed by a patient’s MUSC provider, for example, a patient treated at MUSC for chest pain that does not 
have prior spinal radiation listed on their problem list in Epic. Finally, this checklist has been used successfully 
in other IRB-approved protocols in our laboratory and is a standard part of our informed consent workflow.  
This process will work in the following manner: During a preoperative clinic visit with the PI, an IRB-approved 
study member will ask the patient if they would like to learn more about the study. If so, the IRB-approved study 
member will complete the screening checklist then sign and date the form. If the subject meets all inclusion and 
exclusion criteria, the IRB-approved study member will review the protocol and consent form with the patient and 
then leave the room in order to give the patient sufficient time to read the consent form. 
Commented [NR3]: Still needs work 
Careful attention will be placed on good communication. It will be emphasized that participation in the study is 
not necessary for the standard of care surgery. It will also be emphasized that the patient can withdraw from the 
study at any time prior to the surgery.  
8.0 Consent Process 
Once the patient has been given an opportunity to review the consent form in detail, the IRB-approved study 
member will re-enter the room and go over the sections of the consent with the participant. They will answer any 
questions the patient may have. The voluntary nature of the study will again be emphasized. It will also be 
emphasized that the patient may exercise their right to take the consent form home to discuss with family and 
friends prior to signing. For patients that provide consent to the research study during their clinic visit, a copy of 
the signed and dated consent form will be provided to them before leaving the clinic. The IRB-approved study 
member will also review the HIPAA authorization form prior to the patient signing the form. The patient will be 
given a copy of this form. Original forms will be placed in a locked cabinet in a locked laboratory in the Clinical 
Sciences Building at MUSC. On the morning of surgery, IRB-approved study personnel will once again review 
the study procedures and study consent document – emphasizing the voluntary nature of the study and the 
ability of the patient to withdraw at any time. Patients who did not sign the consent and HIPAA authorization 
forms during their clinic visit and who still wish to participate in the study will be able to sign the forms on the 
morning of surgery, at which time a copy of the signed and dated forms will be provided to them. If not already 
signed by the PI, the PI will review and sign off on all checklists in order to provide continual oversight and 
supervision of our laboratory’s established protocol workflows.  
 
Patients will be informed during the consent process that information about them (including identifiable private 
information) may have all of their identifiers removed and used for future research studies or distributed to other 
researchers for future research without additional informed consent from them. For a summary of the steps 
detailing our recruitment and informed consent workflow, please see our uploaded documents:  
1) NR_Pro00089881_workflow_informed_consent_v01.pdf 
2) NR_Pro00089881_checklist_informed_consent_v01.docx 
3) NR_Pro00089881_checklist_screening_v01.docx. 
 
9.0