sample size of 30 participants will be recruited.  Healthy male and female adult 
participants (aged 18-60 years) will be recruited for the study.  Participants will be 
excluded from the study if they meet any of the following criteria: 
• Aged < 18 or > 60 years  
CONFIDENTIAL 
 
October 2018 
 
 
2 
• Pregnant or lactating  
• Body mass index (BMI) > 30kg/m2  
• Fasting blood glucose value > 6.1 mmol/l  
• Any known food allergy or intolerance  
• Medical condition(s) or medication(s) known to affect glucose regulation or appetite 
and/or which influence digestion and absorption of nutrients  
• Known history of diabetes mellitus or the use of antihyperglycaemic drugs or insulin 
to treat diabetes and related conditions 
• Major medical or surgical event requiring hospitalization within the preceding 3 
months  
• Use of steroids, protease inhibitors or antipsychotics (all of which have major effects 
on glucose metabolism and body fat distribution) 
 
In addition, participants will be excluded if they are unable to comply with experimental 
procedures or do not follow GR and IR testing safety guidelines.  
 
Products 
Three meals will be administered:  
• 50 g available carbohydrate  
• 50 g available carbohydrate + protein (dose 1) 
• 50 g available carbohydrate + protein (dose 2) 
 
Protocol 
The study will be conducted by Good Clinical Practise (GCP) certified researchers at 
OxBCNH.  The protocol used by OxBCNH is based on ISO standards for the determination 
of the glycaemic index (GI).1   
 
On the day prior to a test, participants will be asked to restrict their intake of alcohol and 
caffeine-containing drinks and to restrict their participation in intense physical activity 
(for example, long periods at the gym, excessive swimming, running and aerobics).  
Participants will also be told not to eat or drink after 9.00 pm the night before a test, 
although water will be allowed in moderation.  
 
The reference meal and two test meals will be administered to participants in a 
randomised, repeated measures design.  In each participant, the meals will be tested in 
random order on separate days, with a one-week gap between measurements.  
Participants will be studied in the morning, before 10 am after a 12-hour overnight fast.  
Participants will consume the products at a comfortable pace, within 15 minutes and will 
remain sedentary during each session and will not consume any additional food or fluid.   
 
Anthropometric measurements 
All anthropometric measures will be taken, using standard methods, in the morning, after 
an overnight fast (12 hours):  
• Height and weight  
• BMI will be calculated using the standard formula: weight (kg)/height (m)2  
• Waist and hip circumference  
                                               
1 Food Products – Determination of the glycaemic index (GI) and recommendation for food classification. 
ISO 26642: 2010(E) 
CONFIDENTIAL 
 
October 2018 
 
 
3 
• Body composition using a body composition analyser (Tanita BC-418 MA; Tanita UK 
Ltd) 
 
Phase I 
Glycaemic response (GR) 
The glycaemic response method used by OxBCNH at Oxford Brookes University is carried 
out in accordance with the ISO 26642:2010 guidelines.1   
 
Blood samples will be taken at -5 min and 0 min before consumption of the reference 
product/test product and the baseline value taken as a mean of these two values.  The 
product will be consumed immediately after this and within 15 min.  Further blood 
samples will be taken at 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 150 and 180 min after starting to drink.  
The time between participants finishing drinking and the first postprandial blood sample 
will be recorded. 
 
Blood will be obtained by finger-prick using the Unistik®3 single-use lancing device 
(Owen Mumford).  Capillary blood sampling is preferred for reliable GR testing.  Prior to 
a finger-prick, participants are encouraged to warm their hand to increase blood flow.  
Fingers are not squeezed to extract blood from the fingertip as this may dilute with 
plasma.  Blood glucose will be measured using the HemoCue Glucose 201+ analyser 
(HemoCue® Ltd), which is calibrated daily using control solution from the manufacturer.  
 
The incremental area under the blood glucose response curve (iAUC) will be calculated 
geometrically by applying the trapezoid rule, ignoring the area beneath the baseline.  
 
Insulinaemic response (IR)  
Blood samples in the fasting state will be obtained five minutes apart (-5 and 0 min) for 
measuring baseline insulin levels. Following the consumption of the reference 
product/test products, further blood samples will be collected at 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 
150 and 180 min after starting to drink. 
 
At each test time point, 300 μL of capillary blood (from finger pricks) will be obtained.  
Finger pricks will be made using the Unistik 3 single-use lancing device (Owen Mumford, 
Woodstock, UK) and blood will be collected into chilled Microvette® capillary blood 
collection tubes treated with di Pottasium EDTA (CB 300 K2E; Sarstedt Ltd., Leicester, 
UK).  The Microvette® tubes will then be centrifuged and 200 μL of the supernatant plasma 
obtained.  Insulin concentrations in the plasma samples will be determined by 
electrochemiluminescence immunoassay using an automated analyzer (Cobas® E411; 
Roche diagnostics, Burgess Hill, UK).  The Cobas® system is a reliable method of plasma 
insulin determination2.  The unit of measurement is μU/ml.  
 
 
 
                                               
2 Siahanidou T, Margeli A, Kappis A, Papassotiriou I & Mandyla H. Circulating visfatin levels in healthy 
preterm infants are independently associated with high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and dietary 
long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids. Metabolism 2010;60(3):389-93 
CONFIDENTIAL 
 
October 2018 
 
 
4 
Phase II 
GLP-1 and GIP  
During Phase I of the study, a cannula will be fitted and baseline measurements (0 min) 
will be taken before participants are provided with the test meals.  Blood samples will 
then be collected at 30, 60, 90, 120 and 180 min after the start of consumption. 
 
Blood will be taken from the antecubital vein via cannulation and will be centrifuged to 
obtain plasma samples which will be stored at -80˚C until analysis.   Depending on the 
outcome of Phase I, samples will be subsequently analysed to determine the 
concentrations of GLP-1 and GIP.