Sample Size:  
N = up to 60 treated subjects; subjects enrolled may be greater than subjects treated 
Subject Population: 
Healthy, female and male adult subjects age 18 years and older who meet the inclusion/exclusion 
criteria.  
Inclusion Criteria:  
1. Male or female, age 18 years and older. 
2. Subject in good health. 
3. Fitzpatrick Skin Type I to IV. 
4. Presence of benign pigmented lesions on hands. 
5. Understands and accepts the obligation not to undergo any other procedures in the 
treatment area. 
6. Willingness and ability to comply with protocol requirements, including returning for 
follow-up visits and abstaining from exclusionary procedures for the duration of the 
study. 
7. Subjects of childbearing potential must have a negative urine pregnancy test result and 
must not be lactating at the Screening Visit and be willing and able to use an acceptable 
method of birth control (e.g. barrier methods used with a spermicidal agent, hormonal 
methods, IUD, surgical sterilization, abstinence) during the study. Women will not be 
considered of childbearing potential if one of the following conditions is documented on 
the medical history:  
a. Postmenopausal for at least 12 months prior to study; 
b. Without a uterus and/or both ovaries; or  
c. 
Bilateral tubal ligation at least six months prior to study enrollment. 
8. Absence of physical or psychological conditions unacceptable to the investigator. 
9. Willingness and ability to provide written informed consent and HIPAA authorization 
prior to performance of any study-related procedure. 
Exclusion Criteria: 
1. Healing disorders such as those caused by diabetes mellitus, connective tissue disease, 
radiation therapy, or chemotherapy. 
2. Subjects with a history of photosensitivity or diseases which may be stimulated by light 
at the wavelengths used, such as history of systemic Lupus Erythematosus, Pophyia, 
and Epilepsy. 
3. History of chronic drug or alcohol abuse. 
4. Inability to understand the protocol or to give informed consent. 
5. Subjects with a history of skin cancer or current condition of any other type of cancer or 
pre-malignant moles. 
6. Subjects who are pregnant, nursing, or anticipate a pregnancy during the length of the 
trial. 
7. History of keloid formation. 
8. Subjects with tattoos on the backs of the hands in the treatment area. 
9. History of surgical or cosmetic treatments in exposure area within the past six months. 
10. History of tanning or use of self-tanners in the past 4 weeks. 
11. History of treatments that may irritate the skin in the treatment area such as 
depilatories, harsh chemicals, etc.) in the past 2 weeks. 
 
 
Protocol Number: L18007 v3.0 09272018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 44 
12. Psychiatric drugs that in the investigators opinion would impair the subject from 
understanding the protocol requirements or understanding and signing the informed 
consent.