Sample Size Determination 
The sample size of the study is based on a Simon 2-stage design that will test whether retreatment
with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab in patients with mRCC progressing on 
maintenance nivolumab after first-line therapy with ipilimumab and nivolumab yields a DCR that 
is of clinical interest. 
In this study, a DCR in excess of 20% will be considered of clinical interest. The Simon design 
will test the null hypothesis that the true DCR is less than or equal to 20% versus the alternative 
hypothesis that it exceeds 20%. The type I error rate will be 5% for a 1-sided test and the design 
will have 85% power to reject the null hypothesis when the true DCR is 35%.
The Simon design in this study requires 27 response-evaluable patients for the first stage. The 
patients included in the first stage analysis will be followed for at least 2 scans approximately 
4 months after first dose. The enrollment will not be stopped during the first stage analysis so this 
relatively shorter follow-up period will be used in order to mitigate risk to patients being enrolled 
but not included in the first stage analysis. This analysis will quantify patients without progression. 
For example, confirmed responders, patients with unconfirmed response without progression, and 
patients with SD on consecutive scans would all qualify as having disease control. If there are 
exactly 27 patients in the first stage, then 7 or more of these patients, or at least 26%, will warrant 
proceeding to the second stage. Otherwise, enrollment will be stopped. 
The enrollment will stop when either futility is declared at Stage 1 or once approximately 
80 response-evaluable participants have been treated. Approximately 96 participants will be 
enrolled in order to obtain 80 response-evaluable patients, accounting for approximately 20% of 
Revised Protocol No.: 01
Date: 12-Mar-2020
75
Approved
2.0
v
Approved
1.0
v
Clinical Protocol
CA20973M
BMS-936558
nivolumab
non-evaluable patients or withdrawal. The number of enrolled participants with SD ≥6 months 
will be capped at 50%. 
The duration of the trial is expected to be approximately 24 months of treatment (Stage 1 + 
Stage 2) and 36 months of follow-up after the last participant first dosing. A futility analysis will 
be performed after Stage 1 and the