STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT04008030
Section: METHODS
Features: pro_qol, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, consistency_bridging, non_proportional_hazards, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

of the central test. The 
SAP will document further details. The endpoint defined below will apply to both “All 
participants” and “1L participants,” unless otherwise specified.
Endpoint 
Statistical Analysis Methods
Primary
BICR-assessed Progression-free survival (PFS) is 
defined as the time from the randomization date to the 
date 
of 
first 
objectively 
documented 
disease 
progression per RECIST 1.1 (ie, radiologic) or death 
due to any cause, whichever occurs first.
•
Participants who die without a reported prior 
progression and without initiation of subsequent 
anti-cancer therapy will be considered to have 
progressed on the date of their death.
The distribution of PFS will be 
compared via a two-sided, log-rank 
test 
stratified 
by 
randomization 
stratification factors of line of therapy 
(not applicable to PFS in 1L) and 
tumor sidedness recorded in IRT at the 
allocated significance level at IA and 
FA. 1L endpoints, stratified analyses 
will exclude ‘lines of therapy’ as a 
stratification factor.
3URWRFRO$PHQGPHQW1R
'DWH-XO

13.0
Approved
930125433
13.0
v
Approved
1.0
v
Clinical Protocol
CA2098HW
BMS-936558
nivolumab
Endpoint 
Statistical Analysis Methods
•
Participants who did not progress or die will be 
censored on the date of their last tumor assessment 
•
Participants who did not have any on study tumor 
assessments and did not die will be censored on the 
randomization date. 
•
Participants who started any subsequent anti-cancer 
therapy without a prior reported progression or 
prior to death will be censored at the last tumor 
assessment prior to initiation of the subsequent anti-
cancer therapy.
•
Further explanation for various censoring scenarios 
for PFS will be specified in SAP.
The hazard ratio (HR) and the 
corresponding 
100x 
(1-adjusted 
alpha) % confidence interval (CI) will 
be estimated in a stratified Cox 
proportional hazards model using the 
randomized arm as a single covariate, 
stratified by line of therapy and tumor 
sidedness as recorded in IRT. 
PFS curves will be estimated using 
Kaplan-Meier (KM) product-limit 
methodology. Median PFS with two-
sided 95% confidence interval (CI) 
using the Brookmeyer and Crowley 
method (with log-log transformation) 
will be computed. 
In addition, PFS rates at a specific 
time point (eg, 6, 12, 24 months) with 
two-sided 95% CI using the log-log 
transformation will be computed.
Interim Analyses 
The DMC will be utilized to provide an independent evaluation of the study interim data. An 
independent statistical group will be utilized to conduct unblinded monitoring of pooled events of 
the two corresponding arms of each comparison in order to track the number of events by each 
comparison. 
Study-wise, there are two interim analyses (IA) planned for primary and secondary endpoints prior 
to the final analysis of OS endpoints. 
•
The first interim analysis of the study is planned for the interim analysis for both the 
primary endpoints of PFS. Considering the variability of the enrollment assumptions from 
the actual enrollment rate and differences of the shape of PFS curves in arms A, B, and C, 
this study plans to have the interim analysis of PFS for the 2 primary endpoints at the same 
time when the latest of the targeted number of events of each endpoint is observed and after 
the last participant is randomized during Part 2 enrollment. In other words, the first interim 
analysis of the study was planned to be triggered when at least 85% of the total number of 
events were observed for both PFS primary endpoints and after the last participant 
randomized during Part 2 enrollment. Separate database locks for IA PFS B vs C in 1L and 
IA PFS B vs A in all lines may be conducted if the locks are expected to occur at least 3 
months apart from each other. As of Protocol Amendment 10, PFS B vs C in 1L has been 
3URWRFRO$PHQGPHQW1R
'DWH-XO

13.0
Approved
930125433
13.0
v
Approved
1.0
v
Clinical Protocol
CA2098HW
BMS-936558
nivolumab
tested at its interim analysis (Data cut-off date: 12-Oct-2023; DBL: 15-Nov-2023) and met 
the pre-specified statistical criteria. Interim analysis of PFS B vs A in all lines will be 
conducted in a separate DBL with a data cut-off in around Aug-2024 (“PFS B vs A all lines
IA1 DBL”). If PFS B vs A in all lines does not meet the pre-specified statistical criteria in 
this first interim look, a second interim look (“PFS B vs A all lines IA2 DBL”) may be 
conducted if the projected time between the second interim look and final look is more than
6 months. The interim analysis of the secondary endpoint PFS B vs A in 1L will be 
conducted when PFS B vs A in all lines meets the pre-specified statistical criteria at its 
interim analysis. The stopping boundaries at the interim analysis for each of the PFS 
endpoints will be derived based on the exact number of events observed in the locked 
database using Lan-DeMets alpha spending function with O’Brien-Fleming boundaries. 
For any PFS endpoint, if the timing of interim analysis based on this trigger is too close to 
the projected time of its final analysis (eg, within 6 months), the interim analysis of this 
specific PFS endpoint may