statistical 
analysis, prepare manuscripts and presentations, with editing input from BMH and JSR. ARF will manage the 
clinical trial registry, preparation of institutional review board materials, administrative duties, and 
auditing/reporting requirements for the various agencies associated with the study. 
 
 
 
Roles & Responsibilities – Sponsor(s)/Funder(s) 
This project was supported via an R03 award granted to ARF from the NIH/NIA. The funding source had no 
role in the design, execution, analyses, or interpretation of the study, nor will it have a role in the decision to 
submit results. 
 
 
 
SECTION 2: INTRODUCTION 
 
SECTION 2.1: Background & Rationale 
 
 As of 2018, an estimated 5.5 million Americans have late-onset dementia due to Alzheimer’s disease (DAT), 
and another 11.6 million have Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI)1, with proportionately higher prevalence per 
capita in ethnic minorities1-2. Improved knowledge of health and lifestyle contributions to DAT trajectories have 
made early detection and disclosure of DAT risk a priority for researchers and clinicians alike. In fact, early 
disclosure of elevated risk would save an estimated $172,000 per patient3 and $8 trillion nationally1 in 
healthcare costs via health behavior change and long-term planning. Given that African Americans incur 
significantly higher dementia-related costs than any other demographic4, early DAT risk feedback could be 
proportionately more beneficial for this population, yet occurs less frequently in these communities5.  
 
Literature suggests that between 50-90% of individuals are interested in receiving dementia risk feedback6,7. In 
this context, there is a gap between the rapid advancement of techniques to quantify DAT risk8 and 
development of empirically-supported methods to communicate this information to patients. A survey of the 
current AD risk disclosure literature revealed three critical knowledge gaps that build on our experience and 
inform the aims of this project.  
 
Need 1: Feedback regarding personal DAT risk is undermined by a lack of knowledge about the type(s) 
of information patients and their families want to receive - and why. With the acceptance of the Amyloid-
Tau-Neurodegeneration (A/T/N) model of Alzheimer’s disease (AD)9, there is increased focus on how 
biomarkers may increase risk for the phenotypic presentation of AD (i.e., DAT). Advanced methods of 
detecting AD-related changes in genes, brain structure and function, biomarker burden, and cognition have 
expanded our ability to predict an individual’s risk for future decline8,10-11. However, little is known about 
whether patients would prefer to receive this more advanced (but experimental) information, as opposed to 
clinically-available (i.e., familiar) information. Most published studies in this area disclose DAT risk based on 
data gathered in clinical visits, such as family and personal medical history, subjective symptoms, and 
cognitive screening or neuropsychological testing. These studies have found that the vast majority of 
participants are interested in this feedback for long-term planning purposes6,7.  
 
Among biological risk factors, apolipoprotein episilon-4 (APOe4) allelic status8,12 and positron emission 
tomography (PET) based amyloid burden5,7,13-15 have received the most attention in the risk disclosure 
literature, albeit in cognitively healthy individuals primarily. These studies indicate that patients’ desire for risk 
information is high but varies as a function of how much they know about DAT and AD biomarkers16-18. There 
exists great variability in reasons for requesting risk disclosure, ranging from basic curiosity to family planning6-
7,16-17. Additionally, post-disclosure, even cognitively healthy participants have difficulty understanding feedback 
language (e.g., interpreting a “positive” biomarker as a “good” outcome12). Comparing across these single-
source risk disclosure studies may be misleading, however, as none have directly compared what type of 
feedback patients would want to receive given a menu of all possible risk factors. In the absence of such a 
study, we suggest that clinical, genetic, and biomarker feedback is likely to be processed differently by 
patients. Genotype and family history are static, representing non-modifiable susceptibility. Cognitive test 
scores represent concrete measurements of changes that may already be apparent to patients and caregivers. 
In contrast, biomarkers are unfamiliar measurements of the individual’s underlying level of AD pathology and 
are probabilistic rather than deterministic for a diagnosis of DAT. In light of these differences, the need to 
compare patient preferences for different sources of risk feedback is critical. 
 
Advancement 1: This study will conduct a needs assessment of diverse patients’ and informants’ risk 
disclosure preferences. Aim 1 will evaluate patient and informant preferences for different sources of 
information used to determine DAT risk (see Table 1). Our inclusion of both patients and informants is 
especially relevant given our19 and others’20-22 work showing discrepancies in self- and informant-rated 
cognitive deficits. The proposed project will include a sample that is racially diverse (see Advancement 2), 
unlike prior studies that have focused primarily on White older adults. Furthermore, the sample will include both 
cognitively symptomatic (MCI) and intact older adults, rather than focusing on healthy populations alone. 
Results will describe the unique disclosure needs of African-American and White participants and their 
families. 
 
Need 2: To date, most feedback protocols have taken a 
one-size fits all approach to DAT risk disclosure, ignoring 
known strengths and challenges faced by racial-ethnic 
minority populations. Not only must we understand the 
type and amount of information patients want during DAT 
risk disclosure (Advancement 1), but also how and why 
racial groups differ in their preferences. Discussions of 
racial disparities in DAT prevalence tend to focus only on 
differences in biological risk factors (e.g., genetics, 
cardiovascular health), ignoring the complex epigenetic 
interplay between biology and environment. Sociocultural 
and socioeconomic differences (i.e., early educational 
differences, bias in cognitive testing, delayed/inadequate 
health care services, cultural stigma surrounding 
diagnosis) account for significant variance in DAT 
diagnosis and treatment in minority populations, even 
after controlling for biological risk factors2. One such 
sociocultural difference may be the extent to which African American individuals request, have access to, and 
utilize DAT risk disclosure in early stages of the AD course. The sparse literature on the topic indicates that 
African Americans may be less interested in DAT risk feedback23, yet reasons why are unknown. Greater 
understanding of African-American perspectives on risk disclosure will facilitate better communication and 
treatment, which in turn may alleviate the larger health disparities faced by this population.  
 
Advancement 2: The proposed needs assessment will investigate recipient-specific factors that 
influence DAT risk disclosure preferences in African-American and White participants and informants. 
The few studies examining risk disclosure preferences in non-White populations16-17,23-24 suggest that African-
American individuals are more likely than White counterparts to decline feedback about DAT risk. More 
nuanced preferences about amount, type, and reasons for feedback in African-American versus White 
participants remain unknown. Similarly, the reasons behind this discrepancy have never been directly studied. 
For White participants, personal characteristics such as general or dementia-specific anxiety6,18,24,25 and 
knowledge of AD biomarkers, symptoms, course, treatments24,25 influence preferences for type and amount of 
feedback. These same factors – perceived vulnerability to DAT and DAT knowledge – appear to be lower in 
African-American individuals24 but it is unclear if these group differences drive the decreased desire for DAT 
risk disclosure. We will directly evaluate patient characteristics that contribute to feedback preferences in a 
sample of African-American and White participants using an application of the Health Belief Model (HBM)26. 
More specifically, we will study how perceived vulnerability to DAT, perceived seriousness of DAT, perceived 
benefits of DAT risk disclosure, and perceived barriers to effectively using DAT risk information shape 
feedback preferences.  
 
Need 3: Our ability to effectively communicate DAT risk to participants and informants is limited by a 
lack of empirically-supported methods that integrate multiple risk factors. Existing studies have often 
taken a “siloed” approach that fails to integrate the multiple sources of DAT risk. Several studies have analyzed 
pre-disclosure desire to learn about a specific risk factor6,7,16-18, or reactions to real12 or simulated12 single-
source risk disclosure. Many provide guidelines for single risk-factor feedback7,12,27-30, though these 
suggestions are abstract and drawn from investigations of mostly White, highly educated participants. To date, 
no study has developed a feedback protocol that integrates multiple DAT risk factors (clinical, genetic, 
neuroimaging, and biomarker) and can be adapted to meet the needs of racially diverse patients.  
 
Advancement 3: This study will produce preliminary person-centered, culturally-informed protocols for 
communicating multi-factorial DAT risk, with specific adaptations in style or content based on patient-
specific factors. Aim 2 will integrate the results of the existing literature and the Aim 1 needs assessment into 
practical feedback protocols, with initial piloting. Our approach not only attempts to replicate prior findings on 
psychological reactions to risk disclosure,
... [truncated]