Statistical Analysis Plan 
Using Retrospective and Real-Time Physical Activity 
Tracking to Predict Risk of Sunburn in Outdoor 
Exercisers on Strava 
NCT04977700 
06/22/2020
Using Retrospective and Real-Time Physical Activity Tracking to Predict 
Risk of Sunburn in Outdoor Exercisers on Strava 
1R21CA241637-01A1 
Recreational UV exposure is associated with every form of skin cancer and individuals who engage in more 
physical activity have a higher prevalence of sunburn, a proximal biomarker of melanoma risk, perhaps 
explaining why melanoma is the only cancer with which physical activity is positively correlated. Mobile 
technology for tracking physical activity has become increasingly prevalent and Strava, an activity tracking app 
and social networking site for athletes, is one of the most popular of these technologies. This research will test 
the feasibility of delivering location-based, ecologically-valid sun safety advice to Strava users at times when 
they are predicted to be engaged in outdoor physical activity, by utilizing Strava’s public open-source 
Applications Programming Interface.  
2. SPECIFIC AIMS
Skin cancer is the most common cancer in the United States. In 2019, over 5.4 million cases of keratinocyte
cancers (basal and squamous cell) and 96,480 cases of melanoma will diagnosed and melanoma will cause 
7,230 deaths.3 Skin cancer treatment is a financial burden on the nation’s health system.3 Thus, the U.S. 
Surgeon General has designated skin cancer prevention as a major national priority.4 Skin cancer is 
preventable because excessive exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UV), the primary risk factor, is easily 
modifiable. But, many Americans do not apply sunscreen, wear UV-protective clothing or wide-brimmed hats, 
or stay in shade and approximately one-third of American adults experience damaging sunburns annually.5 
     Recreational UV exposure is associated with skin cancer.6 Individuals who engage in more physical activity 
have a higher prevalence of sunburn,5,7-10 a proximal biomarker of melanoma risk, and melanoma is positively 
associated with physical activity.11 For some athletes, forgetting to apply sunscreen12,13 or not liking its feel 
while engaged in physical activity can be barriers to sun protection.12,14 An expert meeting hosted by the 
National Cancer Institute (NCI) identified sun safety during physical activity as a priority research area15 and 
the Surgeon General prioritized strategies for coordinating messages on sun safety and physical activity in his 
Call to Action to Prevent Skin Cancer.16 
     Online and mobile technologies for tracking physical activity have exploded over the past decade. Many 
Americans wear activity trackers or GPS-enabled devices (e.g., Fitbit and Garmin) and upload their physical 
activity data to websites/mobile apps. Strava, an activity tracking app and social networking site for athletes of 
all abilities, is one of the most popular. Millions share their own activities and follow and comment on physical 
activity by other users in their network. This R21 research responds to PAR-19-309 “Stimulating Innovations 
in Behavioral Intervention Research for Cancer Prevention and Control” with the goal of increasing skin 
cancer prevention among a high-risk population, adults who engage in outdoor physical activity by 
establishing feasibility of interfacing sun protection advice with the Strava website/mobile app. Specifically, 
we will show that we can create an algorithm that a) predicts when individuals are likely to be engaged in 
physical activity outdoors and b) delivers sun safety advice tailored to time, location, and personal risk (e.g., 
skin sun sensitivity). We need to establish feasibility before conducting a future randomized trial evaluating the 
efficacy of this unique intervention. The Strava Sun (SS) program will obtain user data and deliver 
ecologically-valid sun safety advice by utilizing Strava’s open-source Applications Programming Interface 
(API) and location-based advice algorithms developed earlier for a sun safety mobile app, sunZapp, funded by 
the NCI.17 Sun safety messages provided through SS will also be derived from sun safety messages from our Go 
Sun Smart (GSS) program for individuals engaged in outdoor recreation.18 Both the algorithms from sunZapp 
and the GSS messages improved sun safety practices of adults in general and while on vacation in randomized 
trials (see Boxes 1 and 2) and provide the scientific premise for developing SS. Based on the Extended 
Parallel Processing Model19 of persuasive communication, Diffusion of Innovation Theory20 (DIT), and Social 
Cognitive Theory (SCT),21 we hypothesize that SS will increase sun protection by elevating perceived risk, 
self-efficacy, and response efficacy and promoting prevention skills acquisition.21 The specific aims are to: 
1. Gather formative data from focus groups of outdoor exercisers, both Strava users and non-users, on
interest in receiving personalized, location-based sun protection advice and willingness to use sun
protection advice sent through the Strava mobile app before and during physical activity.
2. Develop a machine learning algorithm to predict future time of day and duration of outdoor physical
activity from activities logged on Strava through its API from users who consent to data access.
3. Modify the algorithms in sunZapp and social media messages from GSS to create a prototype of the SS
intervention that delivers location-based, tailored sun safety advice to Strava users through Strava
comments, which can be accessed through the Strava website and mobile app, and emails.
4. Test with Strava users the acceptability of the SS prototype and sun safety messages, ways of interacting
with it, and barriers/willingness to allowing access. 
The R21 research is significant and innovative. A sun protection interface for the Strava platform will 
allow us to identify a large population of Americans at high risk for skin cancer who routinely engage in 
physical activity, often outdoors with high-risk sun exposure, and reach them with sun safety advice they 
may not seek on their own to motivate them to practice sun safety during outdoor activities. Dissemination of 
evidence-based sun safety messages through this widely-used “social network for athletes” is innovative. It 
will help to meet the goals set by both NCI and the U.S. Surgeon General to prevent skin cancer among 
physically-active Americans to reverse the one cancer currently increased by physical activity. 
The project will be led by Principal Investigators, Dr. David Buller and Ms. Julia Berteletti at Klein Buendel, 
Inc. (KB). Co-Investigators at Colorado State U., Dr. Kimberly Henry (project statistician) and Dr. Chuck 
Anderson (machine learning expert) will create the predictive algorithms, assisted by a machine learning 
graduate student. Dr. Sherry Pagoto, project consultant, at U. of Connecticut will provide expertise on physical 
activity promotion and interventions delivered via social media. Mr. Scott Camichael, recent software engineer 
at Strava, will also serve as a project consultant and advise on delivering the sun protection intervention 
through Strava. Media developers at KB will produce the API database and program. 
3A. SIGNIFICANCE 
3A.1. The Skin Cancer Problem  
The research is significant because it will develop a new mHealth strategy to reduce skin cancer. In 2019, 5.4 
million cases of keratinocyte cancers (basal and squamous cell)4 and 96,480 cases of melanoma will occur. 
Melanoma has doubled over the last 3 decades22 and will cause 7,230 deaths this year23 (nearly as many deaths 
as due to drunk driving24). Exposure to solar ultraviolet radiation (UV) is a primary cause,25-34 both lifetime UV 
exposure25-28,35 and intermittent, severe exposure (i.e., sunburn).15-21 The U.S. Surgeon General issued a Call to 
Action to Prevent Skin Cancer,16 citing its high prevalence4 and annual cost ($4.8 bil. for non-melanoma skin 
cancer; $3.3 bil. for melanoma36). Its recurrence,37-39 and treatment disfigurement40-43 also prioritizes 
prevention. Primary prevention of skin cancer relies on reducing UV exposure by limiting time in the sun when 
UV is high (e.g., at midday; at lower latitudes; near summer solstice) and using shade, protective clothing, and 
sunscreen. But, people inconsistently take precautions,16 so efforts are needed to promote sun protection.44-46 
3A.2. Correlation between Physical Activity and Skin Cancer 
The research is significant because it seeks to improve sun protection among individuals engaged in physical 
activity, a beneficial health behavior that is also related to unprotected sun exposure and risk for skin cancer. 
Meeting guidelines for physical activity provides numerous positive health effects;47-51 however, melanoma has 
a positive risk association with physical activity.11 Physical activity is associated with sunburn,7,8,52-54 skin cancer 
risk behaviors,9 melanoma in both genders,11,55 and keratinocyte skin cancers, chiefly in men.56,57 It was 
estimated that sunburn is twice as likely to occur in physically-active than inactive people52,53 and is linked to 
aerobic activity (e.g., running and cycling).5,53 Cardiorespiratory fitness is related to an increased risk of 
melanoma55 especially in high-UV locations, suggesting sun exposure plays a role.11 In one study, persons who 
were more physically active were less concerned about sun exposure.58 Together, the evidence implies that the 
behavioral phenotype of exercisers leads to increased UV exposure, elevating risk for developing skin cancer. 
Promoting sun safety to exercisers must not discourage physical activity. It should be ecologically-valid by 
considering the person’s age, environment, activity type, and other sociocultural factors.17,59 For example, we 
should promote sun protection as a personal comfort and safety issue; bundle it with factors like injuries 
(sunbu
... [truncated]