STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 
PURPOSE OF THE STUDY 
The main innovation of this application is to begin to unravel a mechanism of action of vagal auricular 
stimulation.  The known facts are that this type of stimulation improves symptoms significantly in FGID, and 
that it increases vagal cardio-modulation in this context.  We know separately that the vagus has strong anti-
inflammatory effects.  However, we do not know if (a) it does so in patients with FGID and (b) if this is a 
potential mechanism of action for the observed benefit.  This project will answer these last 2 questions, and do 
so in a rigorous way, since placebo effect in FGID is high1. It is critical to include a sham (tactile sensory) arm 
in a blinded study context.   
 
Positive results from this study would move the FGID field forward significantly.  Potential conclusions would 
include that (1) the vagal stimulator inhibits the neuroinflammatory cascade, (2) if the degree of inhibition 
correlates highly with clinical benefit, that this is a potential mechanism for the benefit it proffers; and (3) that 
neuro-inflammation plays a major role in pediatric FGID, a currently open question. 
 
B. 
HYPOTHESIS / SPECIFIC AIMS 
The overarching hypothesis of this proposal is that auricular vagal micro-stimulation reduces pain 
through a vagal anti-inflammatory mechanism.  The 2 aims of this proposal are (1) to confirm the known 
cardiovagal modulatory rise and show that clinical improvement correlates with the magnitude of this rise and (2) 
to determine whether stimulation reduces microinflammatory indices. Comparing 4 weeks of auricular micro-
stimulation with sham we will determine whether: 
Aim 1: Cardiovagal modulation (as reflected in high frequency heart rate variability, hfHRV) increases, and 
correlates with clinical improvement (as reflected in the Functional Disability Inventory (FDI) and a 10 
point-liker scale of the 5 worse symptoms (e.g.: abdominal pain, nausea, fatigue, headaches and generalized 
aches)  
 
Objective 1: To determine if the auricular microstimulator produces the expected increase in hfHRV and 
determine if this rise parallels evidence of clinical improvement.   
 
Expected outcome: Based on prior experience, in more than half the subjects, we expect hfHRV to improve by 
10% from baseline to week 4, along with an FDI score improvement of >5 points, and an improvement in 
the worse 2 symptoms by 2 points.  
 
Aim 2: Pro-inflammatory cytokines drop as assessed by LPS-induced cytokine production  
 
Objective 2: If vagal modulation improves, we expect a decrease in inflammatory cytokine production, 
particularly TNF α, IL6 and IL8.  
 
Expected outcome: We expect a significant reduction by 10% or more in TNF α (index cytokine) and some 
reduction in other cytokines as well.   
 
C. 
BACKGROUND, SIGNIFICANCE, AND RATIONALE  
Painful functional gastrointestinal disorders (pFGIDs) affect 10-20% of the pediatric population2 and impair 
daily activity in 40%3, yet studies in children are few4,5.  The management has not been standardized as so few 
interventions show any benefit.  These include dietary changes like the FODMAP diet6,7, probiotics8, hypnosis 
and cognitive behavioral therapy9-12, peppermint oil13 and recently, an auricular neurostimulator14. This 
neurostimulator improves abdominal pain14. For pain, opioids are still too frequently used, despite the absence 
clear benefit and significant risk of substance use disorder and side effects15. Furthermore, opioids are 
proinflammatory16, worsening the neuro-inflammatory process and the chronic pain syndrome, and carry 
a significant risk of substance use disorder.  This risk is great in adolescents for several reasons.  First, brain 
immaturity increases the tendency to impulsivity and vulnerability to alcohol and other drugs with long-term 
behavioral and cognitive dysfunctions.  Second, the family setting allows access to opioids from other family 
members in the household17. Third, even a few doses of opioids given in the post-operative setting can induce 
substance use disorder in adolescents. Finally, having chronic pain as happens in FGID is a risk factor for 
opioid addiction in itself18,19. Given these facts, it is critical to find a low-risk, effective, non-invasive and 
accessible treatment that impacts the core pathophysiology of FGID, not just the symptoms.   
 
Functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGID) affect 6-20% of the pediatric population however neither treatments 
nor pathophysiology are defined. In this age of the opioid epidemic, chronic pain and history of physical or 
psychological trauma are a well-known risk factor for substance use disorder19. FGID is currently considered to 
be a brain disorder with central sensitization. These 2 factors, chronic pain and history of trauma, are often 
present in FGID and other disorders with central sensitization20-23. Neuro-Inflammation plays an important role in 
the chronic pain of FGID24,25and other central sensitization syndromes26,27. These disorders often follow an 
infection or injury, with persistent low-grade systemic and mucosal inflammation after resolution of the original 
insult28. A neuro-inflammatory cascade likely contributes to the eventual chronic pain state24 through central 
sensitization and inhibition of the vagal anti-inflammatory pathway29.  
 
We and others have demonstrated that cardiovagal modulation measured by heart rate variability (HRV) is 
decreased in FGID and other chronic pain syndromes. Increasing vagal modulation either through cognitive 
behavioral therapy (CBT) or external auricular neuromodulation14 (manuscript in progress) decreases pain in 
children and adults with FGID. Another device, a cervical transcutaneous vagal stimulator, increased 
cardiovagal modulation and decreased production of TNF α30. A parallel device, an ear microstimulator, 
appears to provide similar benefit, while stimulating only the auricular cutaneous territory of cranial nerve X 
(vagus).  Evidence is mounting that these external auricular devices may be helpful in substance use disorder31. 
Substance use disorder is known to have an inflammatory substrate as well, as opioids are strong agonists at the 
TLR4 receptor32, and low doses of opioid antagonists such as naltrexone have strong anti-inflammatory 
effects33.  It is therefore possible that the impact of the auricular stimulator device in substance use disorder is 
also an anti-inflammatory mechanism.  
 
We will compare the differences between 4 and 8 weeks of active auricular microstimulation by including a 
second phase in the study. This is will also ensure that all participants are guaranteed to receive active therapy 
even if they are assigned to the sham group in Phase I of the study. This will both aid in study recruitment, as 
well as giving us an additional comparator of sham and active therapies. 
 
D. 
DESIGN AND METHODS 
We will enroll 30 subjects in this double-blind sham control study. Fifteen subjects will undergo sham 
stimulation for 4 weeks while the other 15 will have auricular microstimulation for 8 weeks. Then, the 15 
subjects who were in the sham group will undergo stimulation for 4 weeks.  
 
We will measure vagal modulation supine and standing utilizing heart rate variability, measure cytokines and 
mitochondrial bioenergetics through a Seahorse analysis at week 0, 4 and 8.  
 
Inclusion Criteria: 
- 
Female patients 12 – 18 years old with chronic idiopathic nausea, functional abdominal pain, dyspepsia 
and/or irritable bowel syndrome.  
- 
English speaking 
 
Exclusion Criteria: 
- 
Patients who are unable to stand upright during the heart rate variability recording 
- 
Patients with a known bleeding disorder 
- 
Patients with swollen,infected, inflamed, or other skin eruptions on outer ear 
- 
Patients with epilepsy 
- 
Patients with any implanted cardiac pacemaker or defibrillator 
- 
Patients with serious arterial circulatory problems in the lower limbs 
- 
Patients with abdominal or inguinal hernia 
- 
Patients who are pregnant  
- 
Any unstable medical condition, such as renal disease, uncontrolled diabetes, etc.  
- 
Requires new medication during the 8 weeks of the study that may affect the gastrointestinal symptoms, 
vagal modulation or immune response.  
- 
Inability to answer questionnaires or report pain in a 0-10 visual analog scale.  
 
Week 0 – Visit 1 (Enrollment) 
A member of the research team will approach the patient and his/her legal guardian during his/her visit to the 
Functional and Gastrointestinal Disorders Clinic. If the patient and his/her guardian are unable to complete 
consent documents during the visit, the researcher may collect consent over the phone or at the study baseline 
visit in the Pediatric Translational Research Unit (TRU), prior to starting study procedures.  
 
Following the completion of consent, assent and HIPAA documents, a study physician will perform a brief 
medical assessment to confirm study eligibility. The “MD Assessment” form will be utilized for this assessment 
and will also collect demographic information such as birth dates, race and gender. Please see the form included 
with this project submission for complete list of data to be collected. Only patients who continue to meet study 
eligibility will be allowed to continue with this study. Participants will be advised that they are not allowed to 
start any new medications while participating in this study. If a new medication is needed, they should first 
notify the research team prior to starting the new medication. Vitals such as height, weight, BMI and blood 
pressures will be collected either during the patient’s clinic visit or via chart review. 
 
Heart rate variability will be collected using the FAROS 360 device. Electrode leads will be placed according to 
the diagram found in section F. The patient will be aske
... [truncated]