STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03377023
Section: METHODS
Features: pro_qol, consistency_bridging, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

 and that the primary endpoint of centrally 
assessed PFS would likely not be met. The futility analysis was based on conditional power; 
there was no formal testing of null hypothesis as planned for primary analysis no safety 
issues were identified. 
 
Even though the study was stopped prematurely, the primary endpoint of this phase III trial 
was met; treatment with Nintedanib plus Pemetrexed resulted in a significant prolongation of 
centrally reviewed PFS compared with placebo plus Pemetrexed (median PFS 4.4 vs. 3.6 
months with a HR 0.83; p=0.0435). The disease control rate was also increased significantly 
in Nintedanib-treated patients. There was no improvement in OS in Nintedanib-treated 
patients. Nintedanib 200 mg bid in combination with Pemetrexed had an acceptable and 
manageable safety profile, with no new or unexpected safety findings. The most frequent 
AEs were reversible increases in liver enzymes and gastrointestinal events. 72 
 
 
1.7 Rationale for performing this trial 
Approximately 1.6 million people worldwide are diagnosed with lung cancer annually, of 
which about 85% of cases are NSCLC 1. Locally advanced NSCLC patients have a median 
survival of 10-17 months, whereas patients with metastatic disease have a median survival 
of only 6-9 months 73. Recent developments in immune checkpoint inhibition have led to 
promising advances in cancer immunotherapy 36, including blockade of CTLA-4 (cytotoxic T- 
lymphocyte antigen 4), an inhibitory receptor found on tumor-infiltrating T cells, and 
programmed death receptor ligand (PD-L1), an inhibitory receptor expressed by cancer cells 
and antigen-presenting cells (APCs). 
 
 
Despite these advances, however, response rates vary among patients and tumor types, 
leading to intense investigation of predictors of response 74. There is growing evidence to 
suggest that the tumor microenvironment may interfere with effective immune recognition, 
even in the presence of checkpoint inhibitors 75. Of particular importance are cancer- 
Clinical Study Protocol 
Drug Substance: Nivolumab, Ipilimumab and Nintedanib MCC #: 19406 
Version: 8 
Date: 12 January 2024 
 
Page 22 of 118 
 
associated fibroblasts (CAFs): in addition to promoting metastasis, CAFs are able to modify 
immune cell infiltration 76, and in a study of human fibroblasts isolated from resected lung 
cancers, upregulated protein expression by CAFs was shown to correlate with shorter 
disease-free intervals and worse overall survival 77. Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) 
also plays a role in tumor survival by inducing myofibroblast contraction, thus restricting 
capillary-to-interstitium 
transport 
of 
drugs 
78. 
Accordingly, 
targeting 
the 
tumor 
microenvironment may represent an important synergistic approach in immunotherapy. 
Tumor survival depends in part on immune evasion, achieved by modifying immune 
checkpoints, including PD-1 and PD-L1. It is now well known that blockade of the PD-1 
receptor and PD-L1 ligand interaction leads to T-cell stimulation, overcomes tumor immune 
resistance, and potentially provides clinically meaningful outcomes. This therapeutic strategy 
has been investigated in multiple cancers, including NSCLC, with varying responses and 
unique toxicity profiles. 
 
1.7.1 Preclinical Rationale for Combined Immunotherapy and PDGFR Inhibition 
In a preclinical model of murine mastocytoma 79, dasatinib (a multiple tyrosine kinase inhibitor 
with activity against PDGFR) demonstrated enhanced anti-tumor response both alone and 
when combined with anti-OX40, a T-cell costimulatory antibody. Tumor-bearing mice were 
treated with daily gavage of vehicle or dasatinib (150 mg/kg) on days 8, 9, and 10 following 
tumor inoculation. Dasatinib significantly decreased tumor volumes and prolonged mouse 
survival, and H&E staining revealed extensive vacuolar degeneration in treated tumors, 
morphologic changes consistent with significant cell death. Treatment also significantly 
increased the tumor antigen-specific T-cell levels in the peripheral blood of tumor-bearing 
mice. With the addition of anti-OX40, the authors noted increased CD8+ effector T cells and 
enhanced infiltration of tumor-specific T cells to levels greater than those observed with either 
anti-OX40 or dasatinib alone. Furthermore, mice receiving the combination demonstrated 
the highest levels of IFN-γ production in response to antigen stimulation, as well as an 
increased ratio of CD8+ effector T cells to regulatory T cells (Tregs), thus enhancing 
intratumoral CTL infiltration. The authors concluded that such data may delineate a strategy 
by which targeted therapy and immunotherapy may be combined to achieve superior 
antitumor responses in cancer patients. 
 
1.7.2 Preclinical Data from Dr. Antonia’s Lab at Moffitt Cancer Center and FGFR 
Inhibition 
Dr. Scott Antonia, a thoracic oncologist and translational researcher at Moffitt Cancer Center, 
has developed a technique to grow out pure, short-term cell lines of cancer-associated 
fibroblasts (CAFs) from human lung cancer tumors. He has furthermore recently 
demonstrated that lung cancer CAFs are potently immunosuppressive (expressing high 
levels of PDL1, 