STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT02060188
Section: METHODS
Features: pro_qol, consistency_bridging, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

s the original ones but using the new re-initiation start date or new baseline evaluations as 
reference, where apply. Detailed definition of these endpoints will be provided in the SAP.
8.4
Analyses
Analysis methodologies presented in this section will apply to all cohorts except otherwise 
specified.Each cohort will be analyzed separately and interdependently but pooling of certain 
cohorts may be performed. 
8.4.1
Demographics and Baseline Characteristics
Demographic and baseline laboratory results will be summarized for all treated subjects by cohort 
(MSI-H,non-MSI-H, C3, C4, C5, and C6) and treatment (monotherapy and combination therapy, 
if applicable) using descriptive statistics.
8.4.2
Efficacy Analyses
8.4.2.1
Primary Endpoint Methods 
The investigator-assessed ORR will be summarized bycohort and by treatment (monotherapy and 
combination therapy, if applicable). A response rate estimate and corresponding two-sided exact 
CI will be provided. For the reporting following a 2-stage design,the method proposed by 
Atkinson and Brown will be used to estimate a 90%CI. 
This confidence interval takes into account 
the group sequential nature of the two-stage Simon design, where applicable.Otherwise, the 
method of Clopper-Pearson will be used to estimate a 95% CI, regardless of the study design, if 
more subjects were treated beyondthe sample size per the original Simon’s 2-stage design.
Within each cohort, ORR will be further characterized by the DOR and rate of CR. DOR will be 
summarized for subjects who achieve confirmed PR or CR using the Kaplan-Meier (KM) product-
limit method. Median values of DOR, along with two-sided 95% CI (based on the log-log 
transformation), will also be calculated. Investigator-assessed CR will be summarized bycohort 
and by treatment (monotherapy and combination therapy, if applicable). An estimate of complete 
response rate (CRR) and corresponding two-sided 95% exact CI will be provided using Clopper-
Pearson method.
8.4.2.2
Secondary Endpoint Methods
ORR based on IRRC assessment will be summarizedsimilarly as above and will be characterized 
by IRRC-assessed DOR and IRRC-assessed CRR similarly as above.
Protocol Amendment No: 09
Date: 27-Aug-2021
192
10.0
Approved
930073805
10.0
v
Approved 1.0
v
Clinical Protocol
CA209142
BMS-936558
nivolumab
8.4.2.3
Exploratory Endpoint Methods
PFS andOS will be summarized descriptively for eachcohort using the KM product-limit method. 
Median values 
of 
PFS and 
OS, along with 
two-sided 
95% CI 
(based 
on 
the log-log 
transformation), 
will also be calculated. 
8.4.3
Safety Analyses
Safety analyses will be performed in all treated subjects by cohort (MSI-H,non-MSI-H
independent safety cohort, and C3, C4, C5, and C6) and treatment (monotherapy and combination 
therapy, if applicable). Descriptive statistics of safety will be presented using NCI CTCAE version 
4.0. All on-study AEs, drug-related AEs, SAEs, and drug-related SAEs will be tabulated using 
worst grade per NCI CTCAE v4.0 criteria by system organ class and MedDRA preferred term. 
On-study lab parameters including hematology, chemistry, liver function, thyroid function, and 
renal function will be summarized using worst grade per NCI CTCAE v4.0 criteria.
8.4.4
Pharmacokinetic Analyses
The nivolumab, ipilimumab, BMS-986016, and daratumumabconcentration data obtained in this 
study may be combined with data from other studies in the clinical development programs to 
develop or refine a population PK model. These models may be used to evaluate the effects of 
intrinsic and extrinsic covariates on the PK of nivolumab or other compounds and to determine 
measures of individual exposure. In addition, model determined exposures may be used for 
exposure-response analyses. If performed, results of population PK and exposure 
response-analyses will be reported separately.
8.4.5
Biomarker Analyses
Methodology for exploratory biomarker analyses, including characterization of discordant rates 
for MSI testing, is described in the statistical analysis plan.
8.4.6
Outcomes Research Analyses
EQ 5D
Subject’s overall health state on a visual analog scale (EQ-VAS) at each assessment time point 
will be summarized using descriptive statistics, for each cohortassessed,by treatment 
(monotherapy and combination therapy, if applicable). The proportion of subjects reporting 
problems for the 5EQ-5D dimensions at each assessment time point will be summarized by level 
of problem eachcohort by treatment (monotherapy and combination therapy, if applicable). 
Percentages will be based on number subjects assessed at assessment time point.
A by-subject listing of EQ-5D with the problem levels for each of the 5 dimensions (mobility, 
self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression), health state (5dimensions 
digits combined in a 5-digit number),and EQ-VAS will be provided.
EORTC QLQ C-30
The analysis of EORTC QLQ C-30 will be performed in all treated subjects in each cohort who 
have an assessment at baseline and at least one follow-up assessment.
Protocol Amendment No: 09
Date: 27-Aug-2021
193
10.0
Approved
930073805
10.0
v
Approved 1.0
v
Clinical Protocol
CA209142
BMS-936558
nivolumab
All s