STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT02763579
Section: METHODS
Features: pro_qol, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, consistency_bridging, non_proportional_hazards, interim_analysis
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

ell proliferation have the potential to attenuate 
atezolizumab-mediated anti-tumor immune activity, premedication with corticosteroids should 
be minimized to the extent that is clinically feasible.
Statistical Methods
All analyses will be restricted to the patients enrolled in the global enrollment phase only (
 
), unless otherwise noted. The analysis populations used 
in this section, such as the ITT (i.e., all randomized patients) and the PD-L1selected
populations will not 
, unless otherwise noted.
The analyses of PFS and OS will be performed on all randomized patients (ITT), with patients 
grouped according to the treatment assigned at randomization, regardless of whether they 
receive any assigned study drug.  ORR will be analyzed using all randomized patients who 
have measurable disease at baseline.  DOR will be assessed in patients who have an objective 
response.  TTD analyses will be conducted on all patients with a non-missing baseline PRO 
assessment.  Change from baseline analysis on PROs will be performed using patients who 
have both a non-missing baseline assessment and at least one post-baseline assessment with 
patients grouped according to the treatment assigned at randomization.
AtezolizumabF. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
23/Protocol GO30081, Version 7
Primary Analysis
To adjust for multiplicity due to having two co-primary endpoints, a group sequential Holm’s 
procedure will be implemented: initially the hypothesis test for PFS will be conducted at a 
two-sided alpha of 0.005 and OS will be tested at a two-sided alpha of 0.045.  Once a null 
hypothesis is rejected, the test mass predefined for that endpoint becomes available and can be 
recycled to the other unrejected test.
The null and alternative hypotheses regarding PFS or OS in the ITT population can be phrased 
in terms of the PFS or OS survival functions SA(t) and SB(t) for Arm A 
(atezolizumabcarboplatin etoposide) and Arm B (placebocarboplatinetoposide), 
respectively:
H0: SA(t) SB(t) versus H1: SA(t) ≠SB(t)
One of the co-primary efficacy endpoints is PFS as assessed by the investigator using 
RECIST v1.1.  PFS is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of 
first documented disease progression or death, whichever occurs first.  Patients who have not 
experienced disease progression or death at the time of analysis will be censored at the time of 
the last tumor assessment.  Patients with no post-baseline tumor assessment will be censored 
at the date of randomization plus 1 day.
The stratified log-rank test, will be used as the primary analysis to compare PFS between the 
two treatment arms.  The results from the unstratified log-rank will also be provided. 
The Kaplan-Meier approach will be used to estimate median PFS for each treatment arm.  The 
Brookmeyer-Crowley methodology will be used to construct the 95% CI for the median PFS for 
each treatment arm.  Cox proportional-hazards models will be used to estimate the stratified 
HR and its 95% CI.  The unstratified HR will also be presented.
OS, the other co-primary efficacy endpoint, is defined as the time from the date of 
randomization to the date of death from any cause.  Patients who are alive at the time of the 
analysis data cutoff will be censored at the last date they were known to be alive.  Patients with 
no post-baseline information will be censored at the date of randomization plus 1 day. Methods 
for OS analyses are similar to those described for the PFS endpoint.
Determination of Sample Size  
Approximately 400 patients will be randomized into the global enrollment phase of this study to 
the atezolizumab carboplatin etoposide arm and the placebo carboplatin etoposide arm in 
a 1:1 ratio.
There are two co-primary efficacy endpoints: PFS and OS. To control the overall two-sided 
Type I error rate at 0.05, the two-sided significance levels of 0.005 and 0.045 are allocated to 
the primary comparisons for PFS and OS, respectively.
The following sample size calculation applies to the global enrollment phase, 
 
unless otherwise noted.
The sample size of the study is determined by the analysis of OS. To detect an improvement of 
HR 0.68 in OS using a log-rank test, approximately 306 deaths in the ITT population will be 
required to achieve 91% power at a two-sided significance level of 0.045. One OS interim 
analysis will be performed when approximately 240 OS events in the ITT population are 
observed, which by estimation will occur at approximately 25 months after the first patient is 
randomized. 
The primary analysis of PFS is planned to be conducted at the time of the OS interim analysis, 
and is estimated to be when approximately 295 PFS events in the ITT population have occurred, 
which is expected at approximately 25 months after the first patient is randomized. This 
provides 99% power to detect an improvement of HR 0.55 in PFS at a two-sided significance 
level of 0.005. There will be no interim analysis for PFS.
By a group sequential Holm procedure, if the primary analysis of PFS is significant, then the 
two-sided 0.005 alpha will be recycled to OS. Otherwise, iIf the OS analysis at either interim or 
final is significant, the alloca