Statistical 
Methodology  
Primary Endpoint: Symptoms of PTSD & Trauma are evaluated through a 
questionnaire, with scale ratings for different symptoms. Symptoms were 
correlated with information available on the NHS website.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Purpose:  
The primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy of Pulsed Electromagnetic Therapy in the treatment 
of patients who have been suffering from PTSD & Trauma. This will be evaluated using a SCIO device 
over the course of 6 one-hour sessions.  
 
Background:  
PTSD and Trauma is often developed after a traumatic experience. These experiences can range 
from sexual assault, war, health problems, childbirth, or road accidents. PTSD and Trauma is 
estimated to affect 3% of the U.K. adult population, with a tendency for women to have more of a 
lifetime prevalence (10-11%) as compared to men (5%). It is unclear why some individuals develop 
PTSD after traumatic events compared to those who do not.  
Treatment for PTSD and Trauma available through the NHS include Cognitive Behavioural Therapy 
(CBT) or medication, including citalopram, paroxetine, sertraline, or phenelzine.  
 
Goals of the Study:  
1. To evaluate the efficacy of Pulsed Electromagnetic Therapy in the treatment of PTSD and 
Trauma. The goal of the trial is to improve the symptoms of the patients and alleviate PTSD-
related issues they may have. 
 
Duration of the Study:  
The study is estimated to take place over 3 weeks, with enrolment remaining open until the trial 
starts. A questionnaire is required to be answered before the first session and after the final session 
of the clinical trial.  
 
Product Description:  
The SCIO device is an FDA-Approved Class Type IIa medical device which calibrates voltage and 
amperage to adjust to the body’s stress levels in real time whilst administering PEMF therapy. It 
controls the levels of electricity that are conducted into the body through the head, wrist, and ankle 
harnesses. The device runs through a DC electric current, with a maximum voltage of 5 volts.  
The SCIO device offers a calibration of the body. It emits a low voltage, direct current that is safe for 
humans. It works through an Artificial Intelligence system which is controlled through a software on 
a computer or laptop and connected through a USB to the Scientific Consciousness Interface 
Operations device.  
 
Product Intended Use:  
To emit PEMFs into the body and observe effects on treating PTSD and Trauma.  
Potential Benefits and Risks to Patients  
Every effort is taken to ensure that screening and production of the clinical trial follows a code of 
ethics. Patients are not at risk of contracting harmful diseases, ailments, or any other negative 
symptoms. The trial is held is a COVID-19 safe environment, with regular cleaning, monitoring, and 
health checks performed regularly by staff.  
Patient and staff safety is a priority of the clinical trial. To ensure this, potential patients were 
screened and interviewed in advance of the trial to ensure that they fit the correct profile for the 
study. They were asked about their medical history, and the accessibility of the clinical trial location 
in relation to their home. The clinical trial timeframe was agreed upon with all patients to ensure 
they arrived at their session at the correct time. Patients had the option to drop out of the clinical 
trial at any point.  
There have been no recorded negative side effects to Pulsed Electromagnetic Therapy in the 
treatment of patients. In the clinical experience of the Investigator, approximately 1% of patients 
have reported experiencing headaches or dizziness during and/or immediately after a session using 
the SCIO device. This side effect was not reported to be severe and did not last longer than 12 hours.  
Therefore, it is prudent to assume that there will not be any negative health side effects from this 
clinical trial. Patients were made aware of this potential side effect prior to the trial.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Methods: