Statistical Analysis Plan 
 
 
Evaluation of Extended Wear Technology 
 
 
V 2.0 
December 20, 2021 
 
 
 
 
NCT04882800 
 
 
 
 
 
Evaluation of Extended Wear Technology 
1 Background 
Since its original launch in 2008, the Lyric device has offered hearing impaired patients an 
invisible and more convenient option when compared to conventional daily wear hearing 
aids. Designed to be worn in the ear canal for several weeks or months at a time, this 
extended wear, non-custom hearing aid has gone through several iterations and product 
improvements in the last decade.  These product improvements included an expanded size 
offering in 2017. However, even with this expanded size offering, discomfort, migration, 
feedback and sound quality still account for a large number of trial cancellations. These 
issues are often caused by a less than ideal fit, especially if a patient has narrowing ear 
canal. 
2 Objectives 
The primary objective is to determine if patients who have rejected or cancelled Lyric 
subscriptions within the last two years due to discomfort or feedback, migration or poor 
sound quality (due to poor fit) rate the investigational Lyric4 devices with a fitting 
modification as more comfortable  than the conventional Lyric4 devices.   
There are no secondary objectives. 
3 Description of the investigational device 
The Lyric4 device is an analog hearing instrument that is deeply inserted in the ear canal. 
It consists of an electronic module and two seals, a medial and lateral, glued onto the 
electronic module. Currently, the Lyric4 is available in seven non-custom sizes: XXS, XS, 
S, M, L, XL,  and XXL. The investigational device is made of the same components of the 
commercially available Lyric4 device, but with a fitting modification which may allow for 
an improved fit for narrower ear canals and increase the size options.  
4 Design of the clinical investigation 
This will be an interventional, single group design with two conditions (Lyric4 and Lyric4 
with fitting modification) where subjects will wear the currently available Lyric device in one 
ear and the investigational device in the opposite ear for two weeks; and then switch ears 
for two additional weeks. Subjects will be blinded as to which device is in each ear. 
5 Risks and benefits of the investigational device and clinical 
Investigation 
The product-related risks and the clinical investigation procedure-related risks are well-
controlled during the clinical investigation as the subject is under the care of a well-
established, Lyric-trained, hearing health care provider. Any ear health risk from this 
investigation is no greater than any risk a hearing impaired patient experiences when 
undergoing a Lyric trial with a certified Lyric provider. 
The study may reveal that the investigational devices are more comfortable for those 
patients who were unable to wear Lyric devices previously, thus implying an improved fit 
rate. The investigational devices are not custom, and do not require extensive 
modifications of the Lyric component itself. If improved fit rate can be confirmed, it is 
likely that more hearing impaired patients who would like to experience the benefits of an 
extended wear device would be able to do so. 
6 Endpoints 
To satisfy the primary objective, subjective questionnaires will be administered after each 
device fitting and removal. Question domains may include, but are not limited to, comfort, 
occlusion, feedback, sound quality, and purchasing interest. 
7 Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria 
Inclusion criteria: Hearing loss N2-N4 (mild to moderate) 
 
 
 
Hearing impairment: Any (conductive or sensorineural) 
 
 
 
Population: Adults 
 
 
 
Minimum Age: 18 years 
 
 
 
Maximum Age: 90 years 
Other:  
 
Previous Lyric users who rejected or cancelled Lyric trials or  
 
 
subscriptions due to discomfort, feedback, migration, or poor sound  
 
 
quality due to fit issues.  
Exclusion criteria: Participants who can only wear a size XXS Lyric will be excluded as  
 
 
even an XXS investigational device would likely not be any more  
 
 
beneficial than a conventional XXS Lyric4 device.  
 
 
 
Asymmetrical hearing loss 
 
 
 
Other diagnosis that may cause fluctuations in hearing (i.e. Meniere’s 
 
 
disease) 
 
 
 
Unable to tolerate the physical fit of a Lyric device 
 
 
 
Inability to be seen for 4 lab visits 
 
8 Measurements and procedures 
Investigation related procedures: 
Study Procedure 
Impact on subject 
Standard of care? 
Audiogram; may be 
done if most recent 
audiogram is more 
than 12 months old 
Assesses hearing loss 
Yes 
Cerumen 
management 
Clears ear canal of wax 
Yes 
Ear mold impression; 
may be done for 
future analysis of ear 
shape  
Takes custom impression of ear 
Yes 
 
All analysis of the results will occur at the conclusion of the study. All study data will be 
stored digitally. The data will be collected from the participants using paper 
questionnaires and then be stored in an excel file for analysis. Collection of the 
questionnaire results will occur on an ongoing basis. The lead investigator will scan the 
paper questionnaires and send them to the study manager via email. All original copies 
of the questionnaires will be stored at the investigation site until the conclusion of the 
study, at which point they will be mailed to the study manager. Only authorized 
research personnel at the sponsor site will have access to the study results. 
9 Statistical design and analysis 
A priori