STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT02743819
Section: METHODS
Features: immunotherapy, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

he study however study participants will be allocated to a 
treatment arm based on prior progressive disease on anti-PD1/L1 antibody alone or PD1/L1 
combination not including CTLA4 Ab. 
 
19 
 
5.4 
Stratification 
None 
5.5 
Concomitant Medications/Vaccinations (allowed & prohibited) 
Medications or vaccinations specifically prohibited in the exclusion criteria are not allowed 
during the ongoing trial.  If there is a clinical indication for one of these or other medications 
or vaccinations specifically prohibited during the trial, discontinuation from trial therapy or 
vaccination may be required.  The investigator should discuss any questions regarding this 
with the Principal Investigator.  The final decision on any supportive therapy or vaccination 
rests with the investigator and/or the subject's primary physician.  
5.5.1 Acceptable Concomitant Medications 
All treatments that the investigator considers necessary for a subject’s welfare may be 
administered at the discretion of the investigator in keeping with the community standards of 
medical care.  All concomitant medication will be recorded including all prescription, over-
the-counter (OTC), herbal supplements, and IV medications and fluids.  If changes occur 
during the trial period, documentation of drug dosage, frequency, route, and date may also be 
recorded. 
5.5.2 Prohibited Concomitant Medications 
Subjects are prohibited from receiving the following therapies during the Screening and 
Treatment Phase (including retreatment for post-complete response relapse) of this trial: 
 Antineoplastic systemic chemotherapy or biological therapy  
 Immunotherapy not specified in this protocol 
 Chemotherapy  
 Investigational agents other than pembrolizumab and ipilimumab 
 Radiation therapy  
o Note:  Radiation therapy to a symptomatic solitary lesion or to the brain may 
be allowed after discussion between the investigator and Principal Investigator.   
 Live vaccines within 30 days prior to the first dose of trial treatment and while 
participating in the trial.  Examples of live vaccines include, but are not limited to, the 
following: measles, mumps, rubella, varicella/zoster, yellow fever, rabies, BCG, and 
typhoid vaccine.  
 Systemic glucocorticoids for any purpose other than to modulate symptoms from an 
event of clinical interest of suspected immunologic etiology.  The use of physiologic 
doses of corticosteroids may be approved after consultation with the Principal 
Investigator. 
 
20 
 
Subjects who, in the assessment by the investigator, require the use of any of the 
aforementioned treatments for clinical management should be removed from the trial.  Subjects 
may receive other medications that the investigator deems to be medically necessary. 
Local surgery resulting from disease progression is prohibited.   However, if indicated for 
palliative measure and after Principal Investigator approval, local surgery may be permitted 
after the Week 12 tumor assessment.  Subjects who, in the assessment by the investigator, 
require the use of any of the aforementioned treatments for clinical management should be 
removed from the trial.   Subjects may receive other medications that the investigator deems 
to be medically necessary. 
The Exclusion Criteria describes other medications which are prohibited in this trial. 
There are no prohibited therapies during the Post-Treatment Follow-up Phase. 
5.6 
Rescue Medications & Supportive Care 
5.6.1 Supportive Care Guidelines 
Subjects should receive appropriate supportive care measures as deemed necessary by the 
treating investigator.  Suggested supportive care measures for the management of adverse 
events with potential immunologic etiology are outlined below. Where appropriate, these 
guidelines include the use of oral or intravenous treatment with corticosteroids as well as 
additional anti-inflammatory agents if symptoms do not improve with administration of 
corticosteroids.   Note that several courses of steroid tapering may be necessary as symptoms 
may worsen when the steroid dose is decreased. For each disorder, attempts should be made to 
rule out other causes such as metastatic disease or bacterial or viral infection, which might 
require additional supportive care. The treatment guidelines are intended to be applied when 
the investigator determines the events to be related to pembrolizumab and/or ipilimumab.  
It may be necessary to perform conditional procedures such as bronchoscopy, endoscopy, or 
skin photography as part of evaluation of the event.  
 Pneumonitis:  
o For Grade 2 events, treat with systemic corticosteroids. When symptoms 
improve to Grade 1 or less, steroid taper should be started and continued over 
no less than 4 weeks. 
o For Grade 3-4 events, immediately treat with intravenous steroids.  
Administer additional anti-inflammatory measures, as needed. 
o Add prophylactic antibiotics for opportunistic infections in the case of 
prolonged steroid administration. 
 
 
 Diarrhea/Colitis:  
Subjects should be carefully monitored for signs and symptoms of enterocolitis (such 
as diarrhea, abdominal pain, blood or mucus in stool, with or without fever) and of 
bowel 