STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT05775289
Section: METHODS
Features: pro_qol, consistency_bridging, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, pro_endpoints
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

any derivatives thereof (e.g., DNA, RNA, proteins, peptides). 
 
The above samples may be sent to one or more laboratories for analysis of germline or 
somatic variants via WGS, WES, or other genomic analysis methods.  Genomics is 
increasingly informing researcher's understanding of disease pathobiology.  WGS and 
WES provide a comprehensive characterization of the genome and exome, respectively, 
and, along with clinical data collected in this study, may increase the opportunity for 
developing new therapeutic approaches or new methods for monitoring efficacy and 
safety or predicting which patients are more likely to respond to a drug or develop 
adverse events. 
Data generated from RBR samples will be analyzed in the context of this study but may 
also be explored in aggregate with data from other studies.  The availability of a larger 
dataset will assist in identification and characterization of important biomarkers and 
pathways to support future drug development. 
For sampling procedures, storage conditions, and shipment instructions, see the 
laboratory manual. RBR samples are to be stored until they are no longer needed or 
until they are exhausted.  However, the RBR storage period will be in accordance with 
the IRB/EC-approved Informed Consent Form and applicable laws (e.g., health authority 
requirements). 
8.10.3.4 
Data Protection, Use, and Sharing 
RBR samples and associated data will be labeled with a unique participant identification 
number. 
Participant medical information associated with RBR samples is confidential and may be 
disclosed to third parties only as permitted by the Informed Consent Form (or separate 
authorization for use and disclosure of personal health information) signed by the 
participant, unless permitted or required by law. 
Data generated from RBR samples will be analyzed in aggregate rather than on an 
individual patient basis.  Thus, there will be no identification and reporting of incidental 
findings to investigators or patients.  In addition, given the complexity and exploratory 
nature of the analyses of RBR samples, data derived from these analyses will generally 
not be provided to study investigators or participants, unless required by law, with the 
exception of data generated from blood samples collected for WGS or WES as 
described below.   
If permitted by local law, a patient may request access to uninterpreted WGS or WES 
data derived from analysis of his or her blood sample.  If a patient wishes to access 
these data, the investigator must inform the Sponsor, using the following email address:  
global.return-genomics-results@roche.com.  The Sponsor will provide available data to 
 
 
Tobemstomig—F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
94/Protocol BO44178, Version 4 
the investigator in the form of a raw genomic sequencing data file but will not provide 
any interpretation of the data.  The investigator should not include the data file in the 
patient's medical record.  Samples may be stored and analyzed in the future, and some 
samples may never be analyzed.  Thus, data may not be available at the time of the 
request or may never be available.  
The aggregate results of any conducted research will be available in accordance with 
the effective Sponsor policy on study data publication. 
Data generated from RBR samples must be available for inspection upon request by 
representatives of national and local health authorities, and Sponsor monitors, 
representatives, and collaborators, as appropriate. 
Any inventions and resulting patents, improvements, and/or know-how originating from 
the use of the RBR data will become and remain the exclusive and unburdened property 
of the Sponsor, except where agreed otherwise. 
8.10.3.5 
Consent to Participate in the Research Biosample Repository 
The Informed Consent Form will contain a separate section that addresses participation 
in the RBR.  The investigator or authorized designee will explain to each participant the 
objectives, methods, and potential hazards of participation in the RBR.  Participants will 
be told that they are free to choose not to provide optional RBR samples and may 
withdraw their consent at any time and for any reason during the storage period.  
A separate, specific signature will be required to document a participant's agreement to 
provide optional RBR samples.  Participants who choose not to provide optional RBR 
samples will not provide a separate signature.  The investigator should document 
whether or not the participant has given consent to provide optional RBR samples and 
(if applicable) the date of consent, by completing the Sample Informed 
Consent/Withdrawal eCRF. 
In the event of an RBR participant's death or loss of competence, the participant's 
samples and data will continue to be used as part of the RBR research. 
8.10.3.6 
Withdrawal from the Research Biosample Repository 
Participants who give consent to provide RBR samples have the right to withdraw their 
consent at any time for any reason.  After withdrawal of consent, any remaining samples 
will be destroyed.  However, if RBR samples have been tested prior to withdrawal of 
consent, results from those tests will remain as part of the 