STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT03906071
Section: METHODS
Features: pro_qol, immunotherapy, interim_analysis, consistency_bridging, non_proportional_hazards, immunotherapy
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

lled 1225 patients with advanced or metastatic NSCLC 
who had previously received platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients were randomized to receive 
atezolizumab 1200 mg or docetaxel 75 mg/m² Q3W. The primary analysis was conducted in the 
first 850 patients enrolled. Median OS was 13.8 months in the atezolizumab arm versus 
9.6 months in the docetaxel arm (HR 0.73, p=0·0003). Overall results in secondary efficacy 
endpoints included median PFS 2.8 months versus 4.0 months, ORR 14% versus 13%, and DOR 
16.3 versus 6.2 months (HR 0.34, p<0.0001) in the atezolizumab versus docetaxel treatment 
arms, respectively (Rittmeyer, 2017). Atezolizumab was approved in the US in April 2017 for 
patients with NSCLC who have disease progression on or after platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Despite the advances with CIT, most patients with advanced NSCLC have incurable disease; 
additional, effective treatment options are needed, particularly after failure of a platinum-based 
chemotherapy regimen and resistance to CIT. 
Combining an immunotherapeutic PD-1/PD-L1 checkpoint inhibitor with an agent that has both 
immune modulatory and antitumor properties and targets the molecular and cellular mechanisms 
of resistance to CIT may improve outcomes by overcoming resistance to CIT. 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0– Phase 3 in NSCLC 
 
Confidential 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) with Nivolumab 
 
Page 45 of 132  
 
 
 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2. 
Overall Rationale for the Proposed Combination Regimen 
Immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway have demonstrated efficacy 
across a range of cancer types, including non-small cell lung cancer (Brahmer, 2015), 
(Borghaei, 2015), (Garon, 2015), (Herbst, 2016), (Reck, 2016), (Gandhi, 2018), 
(Rittmeyer, 2017). While this therapy leads to durable clinical responses in a subset of patients, 
strategies to improve its clinical efficacy and overcome innate or acquired resistance to 
checkpoint inhibitor monotherapy are needed. Combination therapy with agents that target the 
molecular and cellular mechanisms of resistance to CIT is a rational approach to improving 
outcomes in these patients. 
Resistance mechanisms have been described based on fundamental knowledge of the immune 
system as well as emerging clinical data. Expression of PD-L1 appears to correlate with response 
in multiple clinical studies (Herbst, 2014), (Tumeh, 2014). In the TME, PD-L1 can be 
upregulated in tumor cells via oncogenic signaling or in response to immune stimulatory factors 
such as IFN-γ. Therefore, the absence of PD-L1 expression may reflect a tumor cell population 
and microenvironment with a suppressed immune response. A potentially related state termed 
immunological ignorance is characterized by a near complete absence of immune markers in the 
tumor. Tumors harboring a non-functional immune response or an excluded immune cell 
infiltrate represent additional cellular patterns found associated with resistance to checkpoint 
inhibition (Herbst, 2014). Several immune cell types normally function to suppress immune 
responses, are often found in abundance in cancer, and may underlie resistance mechanisms to 
checkpoint blockade (Vanneman, 2012). T Regulatory cells, MDSCs and M2-polarized 
macrophages, in particular, are immunosuppressive in nature as they counteract pro- 
inflammatory immune responses and lead to tolerance. Inhibition of the accumulation and/or 
function of these cell types therefore represents a rational combination strategy to reprogram the 
immunosuppressive TME and increase the effectiveness of PD-1/PD-L1 therapy. As described in 
further detail below, sitravatinib selectively inhibits key molecular and cellular pathways 
strongly implicated in checkpoint inhibitor resistance and therefore represents a rational strategy 
to enhance or restore anti-tumor immunity when combined with nivolumab, a CIT. 
1.3. 
Sitravatinib 
Sitravatinib is a spectrum-selective RTK inhibitor that inhibits several closely related RTKs 
including the TAM family (Tyro3/Axl/MERTK), VEGFR2, KIT, and MET. Receptor tyrosine 
kinases are key regulators of signaling pathways leading to cell growth, survival, and migration 
(Blume-Jensen, 2001). These kinases are dysregulated in many cancers through overexpression, 
genetic alteration or co-expression with high affinity ligands (Blume-Jensen, 2001). Multiple 
sitravatinib RTK targets are genetically altered in a variety of cancers and act as oncogenic 
drivers, promoting cancer development and progression. In addition to the immunostimulatory 
effects of Axl and MET inhibition, sitravatinib may further condition the TME in favor of 
antitumor activity by its immunomodulatory effects mediated through VEGFR and KIT 
inhibition. Preclinical data with sitravatinib indicate that it can increase expression of PD-L1 on 
tumor cells in vitro and in vivo. Pilot studies in syngeneic mouse tumor models also suggest that 
 
 
 
516-005 v5.0– Phase 3 in NSCLC 
 
Confidential 
Sitravatinib (MGCD516) with Nivolumab 
 
Page 46 of 132  
 
 
 
Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sitravatinib increases the proliferation and fraction of systemic/spleen CD4+ and CD8+ T 
lymphoc