analysis of primary samples will be performed on tumor samples 
at the baseline and the end of the study using DNA methylation array 850K 
(Illumina) to define DNA methylation-based biomarkers. All DNA samples will be 
bisulfite-converted before the analysis. For this reason, the extracted DNA from 
n=15 normal mucosa of non-cancer patients matched by the age, gender and 
smoking status (available from Otolaryngology tissue bank) will be used as non-
cancer controls. The panel of 10 hypermethylated DNA sites (including 4 well-
characterized and 6 patient-unique signals) for each patient will be developed for 
each patient.  
Protocol Version 6; 11 November 2019 
 
 
 
49 
 
 
 
8.3.6 
Ten hypermethylated DNA sites (developed for each patient) will be used for the 
design of droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) primers and probes assays. Plasma DNA at 
the baseline, cycles 2, 4, and the end of the study will be used as a template for 
ddPCR. All DNA samples will be bisulfite-converted before the analysis. The 
sensitivity and specificity of the developed ddPCR assay, as well as their ability to 
trace the treatment response, will be evaluated on this step. 
 
8.3.7 
Gene expression analysis landscape of tumors tissues before and after treatment 
will be evaluated on the primary samples at the baseline and the end of the study 
using low-throughput RNA-Seq analysis. For this reason, the extracted RNA from 
n=15 normal mucosa of non-cancer patients matched by the age, gender and 
smoking status (available from Otolaryngology tissue bank) will be used as non-
cancer controls. Pathway analysis will be performed for each patient using the 
panel of differentially expressed genes relative to controls. This will allow defining 
the treatment response on the gene expression level. The gene expression will also 
be correlated with DNA methylation landscape to evaluate which of the cancer-
related changes are triggered by epigenetic changes common for cancers. 
 
8.3.8 
The analysis of immune cell infiltration and cell repertoire will be performed for 
each sample using gene expression analysis of immune markers, as well as other 
immune-related and cell type-specific genes.  
 
8.3.9 
Immunohistochemical staining of immune markers (especially one detected on the 
RNA level) will be performed. 
 
 
9. 
STUDY CALENDAR 
Baseline laboratory and exam evaluations are to be conducted within 10 days prior to start of protocol 
therapy.  Scans and x-rays must be done <4 weeks prior to the start of therapy.  In the event that the 
patient’s condition is deteriorating, laboratory evaluations should be repeated within 48 hours prior to 
initiation of the next cycle of therapy.   
With the exception of screening evaluations, all time points on study have leeway of plus or minus 3 
days. 
 
 
 
Protocol Version 6; 11 November 2019 
 
 
 
50 
 
 
 
Pre-
Study 
 
3 week cycles (repeat) 
Cycle 1 
Cycle 
2 
Cycle 
3 
Cycle 
4 
EOS 
Follow 
up 
Pembrolizumab 1 
 
X 
X 
X 
X 
 
 
Bavituximab7 
 
X 
X 
X 
X 
 
 
Informed 
Consent 
X 
 
 
 
 
 
 
History & 
Physical2 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
 
 
Concurrent  
Meds 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
 
 
CBC and  
Chemistry3 
X 
X 
 
X 
 
 
 
Research 
Bloods 4 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
 
β-HCG8 
X 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AE assessment 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
 
X 
CT or MRI for 
Tumor 
Assessment 5 
X5* 
 
 
 
X5 
 
 
Tumor Biopsy6 
X 
 
 
 
X 
 
 
Review of 
medical records, 
telephone 
contact for 
recurrence-free 
and overall 
survival 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Every 3 
months 
up to 1 
year 
 
1. 200 mg IV day 1 of each cycle up to 24 months while on study 
2. History to be collected only at baseline; physical, includes interval history, prior treatment and radiation 
exposure, vital signs, (heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, oxygenation at rest and walking, 
height, weight, and performance status.  Height is only required at baseline. 
3. Complete blood count and differential, and comprehensive metabolic panel, NOTE -TSH, Free T4 once 
every 4 weeks. 
4. Amount is detailed in laboratory manual. 
5. Tumor assessment includes radiologic assessment for RECISTv1.1 evaluation. Repeat radiologic 
assessment at week 9 and every 9 weeks thereafter while patient continues to receive study therapy. 
6. Tumor biopsy to be obtained after cycle 4 if feasible.  Archival tissue will be collected at baseline if pre-
study biopsy is not feasible at the discretion of the PI. 
7 Bavituximab is dosed weekly 
8 See section 3.1.8 
10. 
MEASUREMENT OF EFFECT 
Protocol Version 6; 11 November 2019 
 
 
 
51 
 
 
Antitumor Effect – Solid Tumors 
On this study, planned radiologic evaluations will be performed at baseline (within 4 weeks prior to 
starting study therapy) and then every 3 cycles.  Confirmatory scans should be obtained not less than 4 
weeks following initial documentation of objective response, and will typically be obtained at the time 
of the next planned evaluation. 
Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed 
by the Immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST) guideline[Clin 
Cancer Res. 2009 Dec 1;15(23):7412-20] , Changes in the longest diameter (unidimensional 
measurement) of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the case of malignant lymph nodes are 
used in the RECISTv1.1 criteria. 
Accumulating evidence indicates that the emergence of objective responses to agents that activate anti-
tumor immune responses may follow delayed kinetics of weeks or months, and can be preceded by 
initial apparent radiological progression, or the appearance of new lesions or some enlarging lesions 
while certain target lesions are regressing (“mixed response”). It is thus reasonable, in the absence of 
clinical deterioration, to continue to treat these subjects until radiologic progression is both confirmed 
and found to have worsened at a subsequent imaging evaluation. Evidence of PD will be based on a 
comparison with baseline (or nadir) scans, in which there is either an increase of 20% or more in the 
sum of the longest diameters (SLD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum of the 
longest diameters (nadir) recorded since starting pembrolizumab/bavituximab treatment, and/or 
unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, with or without the development of 1 or more new 
lesions.  PD should be confirmed by repeat scans at the next scheduled imaging evaluation 8 weeks 
later (but no sooner than 4 weeks). 
Subjects with PD should be managed in the study as per Section 4.  
10.1 
Definitions 
10.1.1 
Evaluable for toxicity 
All patients will be evaluable for toxicity from the time of their first treatment on 
protocol. 
10.1.2 
Evaluable for objective response 
For each, only those patients who have measurable disease present at baseline, have 
received at least one cycle of therapy, and have had their disease re-evaluated will be 
considered evaluable for response.  These patients will have their response classified 
according to the definitions stated below.  (Note:  Patients who exhibit objective 
disease progression prior to the end of the first cycle of either therapy will also be 
considered evaluable.) 
Protocol Version 6; 11 November 2019 
 
 
 
52 
 
 
10.1.3 
Evaluable Non-Target Disease Response   
Patients who have lesions present at baseline that are evaluable but do not meet the 
definitions of measurable disease, have received at least one cycle of therapy, and 
have had their disease re-evaluated will be considered evaluable for non-target 
disease.  The response assessment is based on the presence, absence, or unequivocal 
progression of the lesions. 
10.2 
Disease Parameters 
To assess objective response or future progression, it is necessary to estimate the overall tumor 
burden at baseline and use this as a comparator for subsequent measurements.  Measurable 
disease is defined by the presence of at least one measurable lesion. 
10.2.1 
Measurable disease 
Measurable lesions are defined as those that can be accurately measured in at least 
one dimension (longest diameter to be recorded) as >20 mm by chest x-ray or as >10 
mm with CT scan, MRI, or calipers by clinical exam.  All tumor measurements must 
be recorded in millimeters (or decimal fractions of centimeters). 
Note:  Tumor lesions that are situated in a previously irradiated area are not 
considered measurable unless there has been demonstrated progression in the lesion. 
10.2.2 
Malignant lymph nodes 
To be considered pathologically enlarged and measurable, a lymph node must be >15 
mm in short axis when assessed by CT scan (CT scan slice thickness recommended 
to be no greater than 5 mm).  At baseline and in follow-up, only the short axis will be 
measured and followed. 
10.2.3 
Non-measurable disease 
All other lesions (or sites of disease), including small lesions (longest diameter <10 
mm or pathological lymph nodes with ≥10 to <15 mm short axis), are considered 
non-measurable disease.  Bone lesions, leptomeningeal disease, ascites, 
pleural/pericardial effusions, lymphangitic involvement of the skin or lung, 
inflammatory breast disease, and abdominal masses/abdominal organomegaly (not 
followed by CT or MRI), are considered as non-measurable. 
Note:  Cystic lesions that meet the criteria for radiographically defined simple cysts 
should not be considered as malignant lesions (neither measurable nor non-
measurable) since they are, by definition, simple cysts. 
Protocol Version 6; 11 November 2019 
 
 
 
53 
 
 
‘Cystic lesions’ thought to represent cystic metastases can be considered as 
measurable lesions, if they meet the definition of measurability described above. 
However, if non-cystic lesions are present in the same patient, these are preferred for 
selection as target lesions. 
10.2.4 
Target lesions 
All measurable lesions up to a maximum of 2 lesions per organ and 5 lesions in total, 
representative of all involved organs, should be identified as target lesions and
... [truncated]