STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: NCT02054741
Section: METHODS
Features: pro_qol, pro_endpoints
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

more than 16 NCORP sites are interested in participating, we will 
allow randomization. The total participant sample size will remain the same, and accrual will cease 
when that target is met. 
15.4. Primary Analysis 
a.
The primary outcome measure for this study is the proportion of participants that experience
grade 3-5 toxicity within 3 months of treatment initiation.  Because of the cluster randomized
study design, we will apply generalized linear mixed model (GLMM) methodology.114
Toxicity (Yes/No) will be the response, and arm, treatment type and arm:treatment type
interaction will be the fixed effects.  NCORP practice site will be entered as a random effect
independent of residual error.  Estimation will be performed using the Residual Pseudo
Likelihood procedure, assuming a binomial distribution and logit link.  Using the fitted
model, we will provide estimates and 95% confidence intervals for proportion of participants
that experience toxicity for each arm, as well as risk ratios between the arms. This will allow
the results for those who fit the original eligibility criterion (on chemotherapy) to be
compared to the other allowed treatments that have a similar toxicity profile as
chemotherapy.
15.5. Secondary Analyses 
15.5.1. Secondary Aim 1.  We will determine the effect of the intervention on 6-month survival 
using log rank tests and survival plots. Assuming an exponential survival distribution, and given 
survival proportion of 0.89 at 6 months from our previous observational work5 and a sample size of 
624, we estimate that there will be 80% power (0.05 significance level) to detect an increase in 
survival proportion greater than 0.942, implying a detectable hazard ratio of 0.511.   
15.5.2. Secondary Aim 2a.  We will compare the effect of the intervention on measures of 
decisional regret (both participant and oncology physician) using four linear mixed models (regret).  
For each model, Arm will be the fixed effect and NCORP will be a random effect (independent of 
residual error).  Restricted Maximum Likelihood (REML) estimation will be used, and inference will 
be performed using the Kenward-Roger degrees of freedom adjustment procedure.  We will also 
determine whether the intervention influences the relative dose intensity (RDI) of treatment given in 
the first line setting by analyzing the Phase II RDI in the same manner.  In addition, to investigate 
whether the intervention changes dosing, we will analyze with a linear mixed model.  In this model, 
RDI will be the response.  The fixed effect will be Arm and the random effect will be NCORP.  
Overall change in dosing will be assessed with an F Test. Lastly, we will determine the association of 
baseline oncology physician and patient decision-making interaction on likelihood of developing 
toxicity. Variables to be evaluated will be derived from participant assessments (control preferences 
(CP)) and oncology physician comfort (PC) with shared decision-making.  A GLMM will be fit with 
chemotherapy toxicity as the response, Arm, , CP and PC as fixed factors, and NCORP site as a 
random effect independent of residual error.  Otherwise, the modeling methodology is the same as for 
the Primary Aim. 
NCT02054741
9-26-16 URCC13059 Revised Protocol clean (1)26
34 
15.5.3. Secondary Aim 2b. We will compare whether the uptake of geriatric assessment 
interventions (% of recommended interventions carried out influences chemotherapy toxicity.  The 
data from the intervention arm will be fit to a GLMM with  toxicity as the outcome, percent of 
recommended interventions as the fixed effect, and NCORP site as a random effect independent of 
residual error.  Otherwise, the modeling methodology is the same as for the Primary Aim. 
15.5.4. Exploratory Aims.   We will evaluate changes in functional abilities and physical 
performance between Arms 1 and 2.  For each of these outcomes, a GLMM structured the same as 
that used in Specific Aim 2 will be used.  Functional status will measured with IADL score.   Physical 
performance will be measured with the OARS Physical Health Subscale and the Short Physical 
Performance Battery.  PRO-CTCAE analyses will be performed using descriptive statistics, 
correlations, and regressions to evaluate changes in symptoms over time, relationship between PRO 
results and clinician-related to toxicity, and relationship of symptoms with treatment decisions. 
15.6. Missing Data 
Every effort will be made to encourage and facilitate participants' completion of questionnaires, but 
because of dropout, missing data will occur. We will evaluate the patterns of missing data and 
associations of missingness with other available variables. Under the missing at random (MAR) 
assumption, we will use multiple imputation to obtain unbiased estimates of the key statistics.  If the data 
are suspected to be missing not at random (MNAR), a sensitivity analysis using selection and/or pattern-
mixture models will be run to determine the impact on the results.115  If the estimates are similar to the 
ones obtained from the simpler analysis of only complete cases, we will report the complete-case analysis 
results.  
It is hypothesized that the GA su