STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: UNKNOWN
Section: METHODS
Features: immunotherapy, non_proportional_hazards, fleming_harrington, methodology
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

1 
Paper 5062-2020 
Combination weighted log-rank tests for survival analysis with 
non-proportional hazards 
Andrea Knezevic & Sujata Patil, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center 
ABSTRACT  
The statistical methods most commonly used to test the equality of survival curves in 
time-to-event analysis rely on the assumption of proportional hazards. In oncology drug 
development, non-proportional hazards between investigational treatments are often 
observed but statistical methods that properly account for these situations are rarely used 
in practice. The use of combinations of Fleming-Harrington weighted log-rank statistics is 
one relatively straightforward way to perform hypothesis testing in the presence of non-
proportional hazards. In this approach, the maximum test statistic of several weighted log-
rank statistics (Zmax) is calculated from Z-statistics obtained using the G(ρ,γ) family. A 
combination test can simultaneously detect equally weighted, early, late or middle 
departures from the null hypothesis and can thus robustly handle several non-proportional 
hazard types with no a priori knowledge of the hazard functions. Although the LIFETEST 
procedure allows for testing with Fleming-Harrington weighted log-rank statistics, there is 
no built-in functionality in SAS® to test combinations of weighted tests. We discuss the 
development of a SAS macro that implements combination testing, including estimation of 
the variance-covariance matrix of the joint distribution of the Z-statistics and calculation 
of the p-value for Zmax. 
INTRODUCTION  
The typical approach to testing the equality of two survival curves is by using the 
log-rank test statistic or Cox proportional-hazards regression. Both methods work well to 
test the null hypothesis under the assumption of proportional hazards, or slight deviations 
thereof. When the two hazard functions are clearly non-proportional, the use of the log-rank 
test and Cox regression becomes problematic: the power of the tests to detect a difference 
between the curves is lost and the hazard ratio from Cox regression becomes 
uninterpretable. Thus, alternative analytical approaches to survival analysis are required 
when the assumption of proportional hazards is violated. 
Figures 1 illustrates examples of the shape that two survival curves take under 
proportional hazards and several types of non-proportional hazards often encountered in 
clinical data.  
2 
 
Figure 1. Type of non-proportional hazards. (a) 
(Vermorken, 2007); (b) (Ferris, 2016); (c, d) (Mok, 
2006). 
In the delayed effect scenario, the treatment does not immediately take effect such 
that a lag time observed, followed by diverging hazard functions later in the follow-up 
period. Conversely, the treatment may provide short-term benefit and lose its effect in later 
follow up, resulting in converging hazard functions and a diminishing effect. Lastly, a 
treatment may result in higher event rate early on but may provide benefit over the entirety 
of the follow up period, resulting in crossing hazard functions.  
The log-rank test has maximum power under proportional hazards, and in any of 
these non-proportional hazard scenarios the test may not detect a difference in the survival 
curves, especially with smaller sample sizes. For example, when hazard functions cross, 
events happen earlier in one group and later in the other. The log-rank scores will be 
positive early and negative later, so that the test statistic based on the total score may be 
close to zero and may not be significant, even though the two survival distributions are 
different. Furthermore, the estimate of the hazard ratio from Cox regression (δ) assumes 
that the ratio of the hazards is a constant, that is: 𝛿=
ℎ1(𝑡)
ℎ2(𝑡), for all times 𝑡, and when the 
ratio changes significantly over time, the value of δ becomes meaningless. 
3 
One important example of non-proportional hazards in the oncology setting is the 
delayed effect often seen in trials of immunotherapies. Immunotherapies quickly entered 
the mainstream of cancer care after their introduction in the late 1990s and they are the 
subject of an ever-increasing number of clinical trials (Sliwkowski & Mellman, 2013). They 
work by eliciting anticancer immune responses and the delayed effect is due to an indirect 
mechanism of action which requires time for activation of the immune system and 
development of an antitumour response, with a subsequent impact on clinical outcome 
(Hoos, 2012). Because of the strong pattern of delayed separation of survival curves in 
immunotherapy trials, the proportional hazard assumption is violated such that the log-rank 
test suffers from significant loss of power. Incorporating knowledge of the non-
proportionality of hazards is essential to achieving properly powered clinical trials and 
appropriately interpreting trial results. 
In situations where a non-proportional hazards pattern can be determined a priori, 
weighted log-rank tests can be used to test early, late or middle differences between two 
survival curves. However, there are many situations where investigators may not be able to 
predict the shape of the survival curves or whether non-proportional hazards will be 
observed. In these situations, combinations of weighted log-rank tests can be used to a 
wide range of scenarios. In this paper, we will describe the implementation of a combination 
test using Fleming-Harrington weighted log-rank statistics.  
LOG-RANK AND WEIGHTED LOG-RANK STATISTICS 
The log-rank test statistic calculates the difference in observed versus expected 
failures over time. Here we show the formulation of the test for the 2-sample case, which 
can be generalized to more than 2 samples (Kalbfleisch & Prentice, 1980). The test statistic 
is:  
𝜒2 =
[∑
(𝑜𝑡−𝑒𝑡)
𝐷
𝑡=1
]2
∑
𝑣𝑡
𝐷
𝑡=1
 
where: 𝑜𝑡= 𝑑1𝑡, observed number of deaths in group 1 at time 𝑡, 
𝑒𝑡= 𝑛1𝑡(
𝑑𝑡
𝑛𝑡), expected number of deaths in group 1 at time 𝑡, 
𝑣𝑡= 𝑑𝑡𝑛1𝑡(
𝑛𝑡−𝑛1𝑡
𝑛𝑡
2
) (
𝑛𝑡−𝑑𝑡
𝑛𝑡−1 ), variance of expected number of deaths in group 1 at time 𝑡, 
𝑑𝑡, total number of deaths at time 𝑡, 
𝑛𝑡, total number at risk at time 𝑡, for each event time 𝑡= 1, … , 𝐷. 
4 
A weighted log-rank test incorporates a weight function 𝑤𝑡 that may change over 
time, allowing for the testing of differences between the survival curves under alternatives 
that differ from proportional hazards.  
𝜒2 =
[∑
𝑤𝑡(𝑜𝑡−𝑒𝑡)
𝐷
𝑡=1
]2
∑
𝑤𝑡2(𝑣𝑡)
𝐷
𝑡=1
 
Consider 𝑆^(𝑡−), the left-continuous Kaplan-Meier estimate of the survival function at 
time t for the pooled survival data. Fleming & Harrington (1982) introduced the Gρ family of 
statistics, where 𝑤(𝑡) = {𝑆^(𝑡−)}
𝜌, 𝜌≥0. When ρ>0, early events (where 𝑆^(𝑡−) is closer to 1) 
are up-weighted and later events (where 𝑆^(𝑡−) is closer to 0) are down-weighted. When 
ρ=0, the test is equivalent to the log-rank test.  
Fleming & Harrington (1991) extended this definition to the Gρ,γ family of statistics, 
𝑤(𝑡)  = {𝑆^(𝑡−)}
𝜌{1 −𝑆^(𝑡−)}
𝛾, 𝜌≥0, 𝛾≥0, which allows for the simultaneous weighting of early 
and late events. For example, consider ρ=0, 1 and γ=0, 1 as shown in Table 1.  
ρ, γ 
𝒘(𝒕) 
Type of test 
0, 0 
1 
Log-rank 
1 ,0 
{𝑆^(𝑡−)} 
Test early difference 
0, 1 
{1 −𝑆^(𝑡−)} 
Test late difference 
1, 1 
{𝑆^(𝑡−)}{1 −𝑆^(𝑡−)} 
Test middle difference 
Table 1. Gρ,γ family of statistics 
COMBINATION TESTS 
In most situations, non-proportional hazards cannot be prespecified. In these cases, 
a versatile test that is sensitive to both proportional hazards and a range of non-
proportional hazards is desirable. One approach is to consider is combinations of weighted 
log-rank statistics. Combination tests aim to have good power to detect a difference in 
survival curves over a range of possible alternative hypotheses, which allows for testing of 
differences without making assumptions about the shapes of the hazard functions.  
There are several examples of proposed combination tests of Gρ,γ statistics in the 
biometrical literature. Lee (1996) uses the combination of (G0,0, G2,0, G0,2, G2,2) to 
simultaneously test equally weighted, early, late and middle differences and shows that this 
combination has robust performance under different types of alternative hypotheses. 
Karrison (2016) considers the combination of (G0,0, G1,0, G0,1) and provides Stata software 
to test any trivariate Gρ,γ combination. In the statistical literature, others have proposed 
more complex approaches to using weighted log-rank statistics including function-indexed 
5 
statistics that simultaneously consider a large collection of values for ρ and γ (Kosorok & 
Lin, 1999) and tests based on weights able to adapt to changing hazard ratios (Yang & 
Prentice, 2010). 
In 2018, the Food & Drug Administration initiated a working group with 
pharmaceutical companies to address issues in analysis of survival data with non-
proportional hazards in the context of oncology clinical trials. The group held a public 
workshop to discuss and present their findings, wherein they propose the combination of 
(G0,0, G1,0, G0.1, G1,1) statistics, which they call the “max-combo” test (Lin, 2020). R 
software was developed to perform the combination test, with the option to specify any set 
of weights.  
IMPLEMENTATION OF COMBINATION TESTS IN SAS 
To implement the combination test, we first calculate the Gρ,γ statistics under 
consideration using the built-in test=FH option in the strata statement of the LIFETEST 
procedure. Consider two groups from the BMT dataset available in SAS to illustrate the code 
and output:  
   data bmt2;  
    set sashelp.bmt(where=(group in ("ALL","AML-Low Risk"))); 
   run; 
    
   proc lifetest data=bmt2; 
    time T*status(0); 
    strata group / test=FH(1,0); 
   run; 
The test option above gives the following output with results for the G1,0 statistic. 
The LIFETEST Procedure 
Testing Homogeneity of Survival Curves for T over Strata 
Rank Statistics 
Group 
Fleming 
ALL 
5.5727 
AML-Low Risk -5.5727 
 
Covariance Matrix for the Fleming 
Statistics 
Group 
ALL AML-Low Risk 
ALL 
6.37902 
-6.37902 
AML-Low Risk -6.37902 
6.37902 
 
6 
Test of Equality over Strata 
Test 
Chi-Square DF 
Pr > 
Chi-Square 
Fleming(1,0) 
4.8682 
1 
0.0274 
 
We use the square root of the absolute value of the Chi-square estimate (Z-statistic) 
from the Test of Equality over Strata table to calculate Zmax, simply as the maximum of 
the Z-statistics. We will also use the variance estimates of the Z-statistics from the 
Covariance Matrix for the Fleming Statistics table in the p-value calculations for the 
combination test. Note that LIFETEST must be run multiple times to obtain results for 
different Gρ,γ statistics.  
After calculating the necessary Z-statistics and their variance estimates, we use the 
same option in LIFETEST to calculate the covariance estimates between Gρ,γ statistics to 
complete the variance-covariance matrix. This is straightforward because, as Karrison 
(2016) shows, Cov(Gρ1,γ1, Gρ2,γ2) = Var(G(ρ1+ρ2)/2, (γ1+γ2)/2). 
Finally, to calculate the p-value for the combination test, we take 5 x 106 random 
samples from a multidimensional normal distribution, using mean vector 0 and the 
estimated variance-covariance matrix, and calculate the number of times the samples 
exceed Zmax in any dimension. This proportion is the p-value for the combination test.  
EXAMPLE COMBINATION TEST WITH NON-PROPORTIONAL HAZARDS 
The following example uses digitally reconstructed data from a progression-free 
survival figure published in an immunotherapy trial in which nivolumab monotherapy, 
ipilimumab monotherapy and combination therapy were compared in 945 metastatic 
melanoma patients (randomized 1:1:1) (Satagopan, 2017). Here, we use the monotherapy 
groups only, and take a smaller, random sample of the data to illustrate the performance of 
the combination test with small group sample size. A total of 85 patients were selected, 43 
in the ipilimumab group with 33 events and 42 in the nivolumab group with 27 events. The 
combination of weights proposed by Karrison (2016) are used: G0,0, G1,0, G0,1.  
The two survival curves show the delayed group separation that is typical of 
immunotherapy trials. The equally weighted log-rank and the early-weighted log rank tests 
do not show a significant difference between survival curves (p=0.10, 0.27 respectively). 
The late-weighted test is significant (p=0.02) and the combination test is also significant 
(p=0.04). Here we have an example where the log-rank test was not able to detect a 
7 
difference in survival curves, but the combination test which simultaneously tested equally 
weighted, early and late differences we able to detect a difference:  
%combo_wlr(data=larkin_85, 
           group=treatment_type, 
           time=time, 
           event=event, 
           weights=%str(0,0 1,0 0,1)); 
 
 
Combination weighted log-rank tests 
 
 
 
Weighted log-rank tests 
 
Test 
Z statistic 
P 
Fleming(0,0) 
1.63681 0.1017 
Fleming(1,0) 
1.09293 0.2744 
Fleming(0,1) 
2.29917 0.0215 
 
Combination test 
 
Z max 
P 
2.29917 0.0392 
 
8 
CONCLUSION 
Testing combinations of weighted log-rank statistics offers an alternative to the 
conventional, equally weighted log-rank test that is more robust to detecting differences in 
survival curves in the presence of non-proportional hazards. This manuscript describes a 
flexible macro developed in SAS to easily calculate these tests. The macro is available for 
download via Github: https://github.com/dreaknezevic/combo-wlr. 
The use of weighted log-rank tests that are more sensitive to alternatives is 
appealing in situations where non-proportional hazards are likely to be observed, such as in 
immunotherapy trials. Statistical obstacles remain to incorporating these tests into clinical 
trials, however, including calculating sample size and stopping boundaries.  
It has been suggested that weighted log-rank tests be included as pre-specified 
sensitivity analyses in clinical trials to improve discovery of potential benefits of new 
treatments (Su, 2018). However, the use of combination tests has also been cautioned by 
authors who note that these tests can reject the null hypothesis both in favor of one group 
and the other on the same data and suggest that these tests risk identifying statistically 
significant results that are not clinically significant (Karrison, 2016; Freidlin & Korn, 2019). 
The role of weighted log-rank and combination tests in the future design and analysis of 
cancer trials remains to be seen.  
 
9 
REFERENCES 
Vermorken JB, Remenar E, van Herpen C, et al. 2007. Cisplatin, fluorouracil, and 
docetaxel in unresectable head and heck cancer. New England Journal of Medicine, 
357(17):1695-704. 
Ferris RL, Blumenschein G, Fayette J, et al. 2016. Nivolumab for recurrent squamous-
cell carcinoma of the head and neck. New England Journal of Medicine, 
375(19):1856-67. 
Mok TS, Wu YL, Thongprasert S, et al. 2009. Gefitinib or