STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN
NCT ID: UNKNOWN
Section: METHODS
Features: immunotherapy, interim_analysis, non_proportional_hazards, fleming_harrington, methodology
Quality Tier: 1 (Specialized)

---

Properties of the weighted log-rank test in the design of
conﬁrmatory studies with delayed eﬀects
Jos´e L. Jim´enez1, Viktoriya Stalbovskaya2 and Byron Jones3
1Politecnico di Torino, Turin, Italy
2Merus, Utrecht, The Netherlands
3Novartis Pharma A.G., Basel, Switzerland
Abstract
Proportional hazards are a common assumption when designing conﬁrmatory clinical trials
in oncology.
This assumption not only aﬀects the analysis part but also the sample size
calculation. The presence of delayed eﬀects causes a change in the hazard ratio while the
trial is ongoing since at the beginning we do not observe any diﬀerence between treatment
arms and after some unknown time point, the diﬀerences between treatment arms will start
to appear. Hence, the proportional hazards assumption no longer holds and both sample size
calculation and analysis methods to be used should be reconsidered. The weighted log-rank test
allows a weighting for early, middle and late diﬀerences through the Fleming and Harrington
class of weights, and is proven to be more eﬃcient when the proportional hazards assumption
does not hold. The Fleming and Harrington class of weights, along with the estimated delay,
can be incorporated into the sample size calculation in order to maintain the desired power
once the treatment arm diﬀerences start to appear. In this article, we explore the impact
of delayed eﬀects in group sequential and adaptive group sequential designs, and make an
empirical evaluation in terms of power and type-I error rate of the of the weighted log-rank
test in a simulated scenario with ﬁxed values of the Fleming and Harrington class of weights.
We also give some practical recommendations regarding which methodology should be used in
the presence of delayed eﬀects depending on certain characteristics of the trial.
Keywords: adaptive designs; conﬁrmatory trials; delayed eﬀects; immuno-oncology agents;
weighted log-rank.
1
Introduction
In drug development, randomized controlled trials remain the gold standard to conﬁrm eﬃcacy
and safety of novel drug candidates. Often phase III trials embed formal interim analyses to allow
studies to be stopped earlier for futility if the novel drug is not eﬃcacious or for eﬃcacy if the
treatment eﬀect is overwhelmingly positive.
Immuno-oncology (IO) is a rapidly evolving area in the development of anti-cancer drugs. IO
agents can have eﬀect on both the human immune system and the tumor microenvironment. By
doing so, the tumors may be eradicated from the host or disease progression may be delayed. The
eﬀect of an IO agent is not typically directed to the tumor itself; it instead boosts or releases the
brake from the patients immune system, and this positive eﬀect may not be observed immediately.
1
arXiv:1806.11294v2  [stat.ME]  9 Dec 2018
The lag between the activation of immune cells, their proliferation and impact on the tumor is
described in the literature as a delayed treatment eﬀect. Some patients may not derive clinical
beneﬁt before their disease progresses while others may derive sustained response or control of their
disease. The primary endpoints often used for conﬁrmatory phase III studies in oncology are time
to event: progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). PFS is deﬁned as time from
randomization until disease progression or death and OS is deﬁned as time from randomization until
death from any cause. The delayed treatment eﬀect may translate to inferior or equal PFS or OS
compared to control treatment in the ﬁrst months of therapy and superior survival thereafter leading
to non-proportionality of hazards in the experimental and control arms of study. Therefore, the
original design based on a proportional hazards assumption will lead to an underpowered study and
hence both the sample size calculation and the analysis methods to be used should be reconsidered
[1].
A weighted version of the log-rank test that incorporates the Fleming and Harrington class of
weights [2], allows tuning the two parameters (ρ, γ) depending on if we expect early, middle or late
delays, is proposed in the literature to increase the power at the end of the trial. However, tuning
these parameters is not straightforward, since a misspeciﬁcation may cause an even larger power
drop with respect to the log-rank test.
The Fleming and Harrington class of weights, along with the estimated delay, can be incorpo-
rated into the sample size calculation in order to maintain the desired power once the treatment
arm diﬀerences start to appear (see [3]).
In this article we make an empirical evaluation of the impact of having a delayed eﬀect on power
and type I error rate in the design of a conﬁrmatory phase III study with an IO agent used in
combination with a standard of care, assuming a range for delay time. We assess the performance
of the weighted log-rank test as an alternative to the log-rank test given it allows weighting of
late diﬀerences and the potential gain power under non-proportional hazards. The evaluation is
made for both group sequential and adaptive group sequential designs with ﬁxed values of the
Fleming and Harrington class of weights. We also give some practical recommendations regarding
the methodology to be used in the presence of delayed eﬀects depending on certain characteristics
of the trial.
The manuscript is organized as follows. In section 2, we describe the weighted log-rank test and
derive derive the sample size calculation formula needed to incorporate the estimated delay and the
Fleming and Harrington class of weights, and we introduce the combination test statistic that will
be necessary when doing sample size re-assessment. In section 3 we brieﬂy describe group sequential
and adaptive group sequential designs, emphasizing two popular methods used to do sample size
re-assessment. In section 4, we describe the simulated example.
2
Methods
In this section we describe the statistical methodology we review in this article. In sections 2.1 and
2.2 we present the weighted log-rank test and derive an optimal sample size when using this test
following [3]. This sample size derivation is presented as an alternative to the Schoenfeld’s formula
[4], which is normally used when calculating the necessary sample size in conﬁrmatory trials. In
section 2.3 we introduce the combination test statistic, which will be necessary when we perform
sample size re-estimation in adaptive group sequential designs.
Let T be a vector that contains the event times, ti, i = 1, 2, . . . , D, between the patients’ enroll-
ment date and the patients’ ﬁnal event date, tD, such that t1 < t2 < · · · < tD. Let the number of
events at time ti be denoted as di, the total number of patients at risk at that time be denoted as
ni, and the eﬀect delay (in months) be denoted as ϵ. As previously described if t < ϵ both survival
curves go in parallel and once t ≥ϵ, the survival curves will start diverging. Hence, we assume the
2
following density functions fj(t), survival functions Sj(t) and hazard functions hj(t) for the control
group (j = 1) and for the experimental group (j = 2):
f1(t) = λ exp(−λt), S1(t) = exp(−λt)
and
h1(t) = λ,
f2(t) =

λ exp(−λt)
cψλ exp(−ψλt) , S2(t) =
 exp(−λt)
c exp(−ψλt)
and
h2(t) =
 λ
if
0 ≤t < ϵ
ψλ
if
t ≥ϵ
,
(1)
where c = exp
h
ϵψλ

1
ψ−1
i
so that
R ∞
0 f2(t)dt = 1. This way, we assume a step function for the
hazard ratio where from time 0 to ϵ, the hazard ratio is equal to 1, and from time ϵ the hazard ratio
is equal to 1/ψ.
In this article we assume that the control group receives the standard of care and the experi-
mental group receives a combination of the standard of care plus the IO agent which causes the
delayed eﬀect. Hence, any observed diﬀerence from time 0 until time ϵ is random. The conclusions
we obtain are only applicable to studies where a similar assumption is made. Otherwise, we cannot
guarantee that from time 0 to time ϵ, both groups have a common survival function.
2.1
Weighted log-rank test
The weighted log-rank test is deﬁned as
Zr =
PD
i=1 ri(d1i −E(d1i))
qPD
i=1 r2
i Var(d1i)
,
(2)
where E(d1i) = n1i ×

di
ni

, Var(d1i) = n1in2idi(ni−di)
n2
i (ni−1)
and Zr
appx.
≈N(0, 1) under the null hypothesis
H0 : h1/h2 = 1.
[2] proposed the use of ri to weight early, middle and late diﬀerences through the Gρ,γ class of
weighted log-rank tests, where the weight function at a time point ti is equal to
ri = ˆS(ti)ρ(1 −ˆS(ti))γ,
(3)
where ˆS(ti) corresponds to the Kaplan-Meier estimator.
Depending on the values of ρ and γ, we will have diﬀerent weight functions that will emphasize
early diﬀerences (ρ = 1, γ = 0), middle diﬀerences (ρ = 1, γ = 1) or late diﬀerences (ρ = 0, γ = 1)
in the hazard rates or the survival curves. The parameter combination attributes equal weights
to all (ρ = 0, γ = 0) data values and hence does not emphasize any survival diﬀerences between
treatment arms. Moreover, with this parameter combination (2) corresponds to the usual log-rank
test.
As mentioned by [3], since we focus on the entire survival curve rather than the late diﬀerence,
valid inference requires pre-speciﬁcation of ρ and γ prior to any data collection.
Prior speciﬁcation of (ρ, γ) is always advisable for the trial integrity, although some authors (see
e.g., [5]) note that the value of (ρ, γ) can be modiﬁed at the interim analysis without type-I error
rate inﬂation. At the end of the trial, we are interested in estimating the hazard ratio across the
entire study, which is obtained through the standard Cox model [6]. Note however that there will
be a disconnect between the hazard ratio (i.e., the standard Cox model) and the weighted log-rank
test. To obtain an estimate based on the Cox model that corresponds to the weighted log-rank test
see [7].
In this article we focus on the use of the weighted log-rank test in conﬁrmatory trials with
delayed eﬀects. Other areas of use may include treatment switching, which is sometimes present
in conﬁrmatory trials and also induces non-proportional hazards (see [8]). However, it is out the
3
scope of this article to evaluate the performance of the weighted log-rank test under the presence
of treatment switching and further research on this matter would be necessary.
2.2
Sample size derivation for the weighted log-rank test
We introduce the optimal sample size derivation proposed by [3]. Assume that we recruit patients
during time T at a certain rate in a conﬁrmatory trial where we aim to compare survival time be-
tween two groups (j = 1, 2): a control group, with a constant hazard over time, and an experimental
group, with a hazard that changes over time. The ﬁnal analysis is performed at time T + τ after
the ﬁrst patient is enrolled. The study period [0, T + τ] is partitioned into M subintervals of equal
length {t0 = 0, t1, t2, . . . , tM = T + τ}. Let hj(ti) be the hazard function for group j at time ti and
Nj(ti) be the expected number of patients at risk for group j at time ti, where i = 0, . . . , M −1.
[9] showed that the weighted log-rank statistic is normally distributed with unit variance and
approximate expectation of
E =
PM−1
i=0 Diri

φiθi
1+φiθi −
φi
1+φi

qPM−1
i=0 Dir2
i
φi
(1+φi)2
,
(4)
where
θi = h2(ti)
h1(ti),
φi = N2(ti)
N1(ti),
Di = (h1(ti)N1(ti) + h2(ti)N2(ti)),
Nj(t0) = nwj,
Nj(ti+1) = Nj(ti)

1 −hj(ti) −

1
T + τ −ti

I{ti>τ}

,
(5)
wj represents the allocation ratio for group j, and ri corresponds to the Fleming-Harrington’s Gρ,γ
class of weights where ri = (S(ti))ρ(1 −S(ti))γ and S(ti) represents the pooled survival function.
Even though it was originally proposed by [10], [3] uses S(ti) = w1S1(ti) + w2S2(ti) as a substitute
for the pooled survival function, where Sj(ti) represents the survival function of group j at time ti.
However, as stated by [3], equation (4) can be equivalently expressed as
E = n
1
2E∗= n
1
2


PM−1
i=0 D∗
i ri

φiθi
1+φiθi −
φi
1+φi

qPM−1
i=0 D∗
i r2
i
φi
(1+φi)2

,
(6)
where
D∗
i = (h1(ti)N ∗
1(ti) + h2(ti)N ∗
2(ti)),
N ∗
j (t0) = wj,
N ∗
j (ti+1) = N ∗
j (ti)

1 −hj(ti) −

1
T + τ −ti

I{ti>τ}

,
(7)
Assuming that the weighted log-rank statistic is normally distributed with mean n
1
2E∗and unit
variance, then for a power equal to 1 −β and one-sided signiﬁcance level α we have
n
1
2E∗ = zα + zβ,
(8)
where zα and zβ correspond to the α-th and β-th percentile of the standard normal distribution
respectively. The required sample size is calculated as
4
n =
zα + zβ
E∗
2
,
(9)
and the total expected number of events is equal to n × PM−1
i=0 Di.
2.3
Test statistic
We aim to test the null hypothesis, H0 : h1
h2 = 1, against the alternative, H1 : h1
h2 < 1. In the context
of group sequential designs, since we are only interested in early eﬃcacy testing we make use of the
well known classical group sequential design methodology (see [11]) and make use of the O’Brien
and Fleming rejection boundaries. In the context of adaptive group sequential designs, we make
use of the independent increment property of the inverse normal method, which is an eﬃcient way
of incorporating data of patients who where censored at interim analysis while ensuring type-I error
rate control (see [12]). The test statistic is deﬁned as
Z∗= ξ1Φ−1(1 −p1) + ξ2Φ−1(1 −p2),
(10)
where p1 and p2 denote the separate stage p-values from stages 1 and 2, Φ−1 denotes the inverse
of the standard normal distribution, and ξ1 and ξ2 are pre-speciﬁed weights such that ξ2
1 =
n1
n1+n2,
ξ2
2 =
n2
n1+n2 and where n1 and n2 represent the number of events observed in each stage. The null
hypothesis will be rejected at level α if Z∗> Φ−1(1 −α).
However, the inverse normal method is in general not valid when doing sample size re-assessment
if the adaptations depend on endpoints such OS or PFS (see [13]). We use the approach proposed
by [14] where, in equation (10), the ﬁrst stage p-value is deﬁned by the cohort of patients included
before the interim analysis and is calculated only at the end of the trial. This allows the inclusion
of all the events, but it prohibits early stopping for eﬃcacy. See [15] for a detailed review of the
existing methods on this matter.
3
Group sequential and adaptive group sequential designs
In this section we aim to brieﬂy describe how group sequential and adaptive group sequential designs
work. For a detailed deﬁnition and explanation of this methodology see [11].
3.1
Group sequential designs
The formulae presented in section 2.2 allow to obtain a sample size that maintains an acceptable
power at the end of the trial under the presence of delayed eﬀects. However, a key condition is to have
some knowledge about the delay of the drug. Assuming we have this knowledge when designing the
conﬁrmatory trial, we can implement a group sequential design with an interim analysis for eﬃcacy.
Note that interim analysis for futility is not advised in the presence of delayed eﬀect because of
high risk of stopping the study for futility even in scenarios that favor the alternative hypothesis.
A group sequential design with one in