Adverse Events
14.1
 Definition of an Adverse Event
14.2
 Definition of a Serious Adverse Event
14.3
 Required Action for Serious Adverse Event
15.0
 Administrative 
15.1
 Case Report Forms
15.2
 Source Documents
15.3
 Protocol Deviations
16.0
 References
17.0
 Appendices
1.0 Schema
2.0 Objectives
1.1 Primary Objectives
1.1.1
To establish a maximum tolerated dose (MTD) through a dose-escalation trial using 
intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT) following neurosurgical resection for large 
brain metastases. 
1.1.2
To determine median local progression-free survival, ie recurrence rate of treated 
brain metastasis
1.2 Secondary Objectives
1.2.1
Overall Survival
1.2.1.1 Differentiated between death secondary to systemic disease progression 
and neurologic death from intracerebral disease progression
1.2.2
Freedom from Further Treatment
1.2.2.1 Interval from IORT to further oncologic therapy (salvage radiosurgery, laser 
thermal therapy, etc)
1.2.3
Quality of Life (QOL)
1.2.3.1 FACT-Br
1.2.4
Global Progression Free Survival
1.2.4.1 Systemic Cancer Progression Free Survival
1.2.5
Intracranial Progression Free Survival
1.2.5.1 Time from IORT to development of new brain metastases
1.2.6
IORT Dose Limiting Toxicities
1.2.6.1 Craniotomy wound healing complications or infection requiring surgical 
intervention, intracranial hemorrhage, radionecrosis requiring intervention 
(surgical resection, laser intersitial therapy, prolonged (>7 days) steroid 
administration, avastin)
3.0 Background and Study Rationale 
Brain metastases (BMs) are the most common intracranial tumor in adult patients and affect between 
between 10-30% of all patients with systemic malignancies 1. It is estimated between 200,000 to 300,000 
patients per year 2 are affected by brain metastases and the incidence of brain metastases will likely rise with 
the advent of increasingly effective systemic therapy.  Therapeutic options for these patients commonly 
include definitive stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) or surgical resection 
followed by adjuvant SRS or WBRT 3. Given the improved prognosis for at least select groups of patients with 
novel systemic treatment, optimizing brain metastasis control while minimizing side effects of intracranial 
radiotherapy (RT) is increasingly critical. 
Despite advances including more routine use of high precision SRS with submillimeter accuracy 4 and 
minimal dose to adjacent normal brain parenchyma, large brain tumors remain therapeutically challenging. 
Balancing the delivery of a sufficient dose of RT to achieve effective tumor control while minimizing 
treatment toxicity can be difficult to achieve for large tumors. When clinically appropriate, select brain 
metastases may be surgically resected with level I evidence demonstrating adjuvant SRS reduces local or 
tumor bed recurrence 5.  However, multiple prior investigations have suggested brain tumors with large 
preoperative diameter have worsened local control relative to smaller lesions even with postoperative SRS 6-
8.  Further, patients may develop postoperative complications including wound healing which may delay 
adjuvant SRS and thus may increase the risk for tumor repopulation.
The potential for delivering ablative doses of radiation to the tumor bed while simultaneously sparing normal 
brain parenchyma from significant doses of radiation and reducing the potential for tumor repopulation has 
led to interest in the use of intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT). IORT has achieved excellent rates of local 
control in multiple prior series 9-13 and may be optimal for patients with large brain metastases. In contrast to 
postoperative radiosurgery, IORT does not require an interval for postoperative healing and cavity shrinkage, 
limiting potential tumor repopulation and conceivably disease spread beyond the surgical cavity 14. Wernicke 
and colleagues recently published the results of a prospective protocol treating large (≥ 2.0cm) brain 
metastases undergoing surgical resection with IORT using a permanent Cesium-131 brachytherapy implant 9. 
Their results were quite impressive, with a local/regional freedom from progression at 1 year of 80% for the 
subgroup of patients with tumors >3.0cm with a median follow up of 11.9 months. Further, they did not 
report any cases of radiation necrosis. 
Delivering IORT for resected BMs using balloon based electronic brachytherapy with the Xoft Axxent device 
similarly facilitates single fraction treatment of the surgical cavity with a rapid dose falloff, exposing minimal 
normal brain parenchyma to doses of radiation 15. Further, balloon based brachytherapy dose not require 
ordering a prespecified mesh impregnated with a radioisotope such as Cesium-131, eliminates the need for 
cutting mesh (potentially altering radioisotope placement), and removes the potential for post-implant 
radioisotope seed migration. Xoft electronic brachytherapy uses a disposable electronic radiation source 
producing 50 kV x-rays instead of a radioisotope (Cesium-131 has an energy rate of 30.4 keV). The electronic 
brachytherapy source may be turned on or off at will, and uses a similar technology to the photon 
radiosurgery system used in the intrabeam device 16. The average treatment time ranges from 8 to 10 
minutes. 
An additional advantage of delivery electronic brachytherapy with kV energy is the minimal shielding 
requirement, with use approved for standard operating suites meeting the requirements for intraoperative 
fluoroscopy. The dose fall with Xoft is rapid, with the dose at 5mm and 10mm from the balloon applicator 
surface measuring 52.3% and 29.7% respectively for the small balloon applicator filled with 40cc of saline. 
Xoft IORT is commonly used when performing IORT for early stage breast carcinomas, with updated results 
from an international, multi-institutional protocol treating more than 1200 patients from 2012 to 2018 
presented at the 60th annual American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) meeting reporting excellent 
clinical outcomes (<1% in breast recurrence at 2 years) with minimal side effects. 
In this protocol, we propose a phase I/phase II dose escalation study of large (≥ 2.5cm) brain metastases 
undergoing surgical resection treated with IORT using balloon applicator based electronic brachytherapy 
using the Xoft Axxent device. The starting dose will be 18 Gy prescribed to the surface of the balloon 
applicator, given the increased relative biologic effectiveness (RBE) of kV radiation (RBE ~1.3) this dose is 
considered ablative for residual microscopic disease with limited dose delivered to adjacent normal brain 
parenchyma well below documented tolerance thresholds. As the local control rate at 1 year for brain 
metastases with a preoperative diameter ≥ 3cm receiving postoperative SRS in the phase III trial by Mahajan 
et al was 58% 5, we believe the ability of IORT using the Xoft applicator to safely deliver a higher dose of RT to 
the tumor cavity may result in improved lesion control. The maximum dose tested will be 24 Gy prescribed to 
the applicator surface. 
Dosimetric data investigating IORT plans using balloon applicator based electronic brachytherapy indicate 
IORT doses between 18 to 24 Gy produce plans with doses to organs at risk well below tolerance thresholds 
12.  IORT doses within these dose levels have been demonstrated to be associated with acceptable toxicity in a 
phase I/phase II study using IORT followed by additional external beam RT to treated primary brain cancer 
(Glioblastoma) with no dose limiting toxicities occurring in their specified 3 month post IORT interval (doses 
from 20 to 40 Gy) 17. 
4.0 Participant Selection
4.1 Inclusion Criteria
1. Participants must be ≥ 18 years of age.
2. Participants must have a Karnosfky performance status of ≥ 50%.
3. Participants must not have had prior intracranial radiation.
4. Participants must have a life expectancy greater than 3 months. 
5. Participants must have a preoperative MRI Brain T1-Gadolinum enhanced scan demonstrating a non-dural 
based lesion with greatest diameter ≥ 2.5 cm. 
6. Sufficient distance (≥ 2cm or at the discretion of the study principal investigator) of the intracranial lesion 
from optic structures (optic chiasm and bilateral optic nerves) and brainstem to meet established normal 
structure dose limits. 
7.  Subject or subject’s legal representative to provide signed/written informed consent to participate in the 
study protocol.  
8. Surface of balloon applicator must be ≥ 1cm from skin overlying closest portion of unresected calvarium.
9. Participants may remain on systemic therapy if they are receiving immunotherapy (anti-PD1, anti-PDL1, 
anti-CTLA-4), capecitabine, temozolomide, etoposide, vinorelbine, pemetrexed, lapatinib, traztuzumab, 
bevacizumab, mTor or ALK targeted agents with no break prior to initiating IORT. 
9.1 Participants receiving cisplatin, methotrexate, taxanes, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, or BRAF targeted 
agents must have a seven day washout period prior to receiving IORT. 
9.2 Participants receiving doxorubicin, T-DM1, or antibody-drug conjugates must have a fourteen day 
washout period prior to receiving IORT. 
9.3. Participants receiving all other concurrent systemic agents will undergo consideration for a washout 
period prior to receiving IORT at the discretion of the study  principal investigator. 
4.2 Exclusion Criteria
1.   Participants may not be pregnant or breast-feeding. 
2.  Patients must not have dural lesions or leptomeningeal disease.
3. Patients must not have psychiatric or social conditions limiting adherence to protocol guidelines. 
4. Patients must not have contraindications to anesthesia, surgery, or MR imaging with Gadolinium injection. 
5. Patients must not have a frozen section diagnosis of small cell carcinoma, lymphoma, germinoma or non-
malignant histology.
6. Patients with additional unresected brain metastases must have a limited nu
... [truncated]