tolerability.  
Stimulation is continuously available (except when bathing) for up to 7 days via transcutaneous 
electrodes of size approximately 1cm x 2cm. Stimulation output frequency varies from 4 to 3000 Hz 
and pulse width from 7 to 1024 microseconds. Stimulation output current varies from 0 to 3.2 mA 
(peak) into a 15 kOhm load, and output voltage varies from 0 to 44 volts (peak to peak). 
Treatment is self-administered, and participants are instructed that they can control the device 
output intensity and duration according to perceived benefit. 
Possible mechanisms of action. Earlier studies demonstrated that transcranial electrostimulation 
of the type delivered by the NET Device can attenuate the severity of opioid withdrawal [1–5]. Such 
neurostimulation is thought to modulate endogenous opioid, dopaminergic and serotonergic systems 
and the autonomic nervous system [40-42], which are dysregulated in the opioid-dependent state [6–
12]. We hypothesize that self-titrated NET Device stimulation of these multiple interacting 
neurochemical systems may promote neuroplastic changes [13–16] that normalize functioning of these 
systems and support longer-lasting changes in drug-abstinence behavior. Although the mechanism of 
 
 
3 
action is not well-understood and is a subject for future investigation, treatment duration (< 7 days, 
self-administered) is consistent with FDA-approved percutaneous nerve stimulators, and the outcome 
measurement period (up to 16 weeks from start of treatment) is consistent with results of open-label 
NET pilot studies in Kentucky and Scotland.  
Safety. As a Non-Significant Risk device, FDA does not require submitting an Investigational 
Device Exemption for this study. Safety of the NET Device has not been established for persons who: 
(1) are pregnant, breastfeeding, or <18 years old; (2) have serious heart conditions or a cardiac 
pacemaker; (3) have suffered a stroke, brain tumor, or brain injury; (4) have current epilepsy; (5) are 
suffering serious psychotic illness; or (6) are taking medications such as neurotransmitter blockers.