ADVERSE EVENT REPORTING Page 22  
10.0 STUDY PARAMETERS Page 23  
11.0 DRUG FORMULATION AND PROCUREMENT Page 25  
12.0 STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS Page 27  
13.0 DATA SAFETY MONITORING PLAN Page 28  
14.0 RECORDS TO BE KEPT Page 28  
154.0 PATIENT CONSENT AND PEER JUDGEMENT Page 29  
16.0 MINORITIES AND WOMEN STATEMENT Page 29  
17.0 ETHICAL AND REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS Page 29  
18.0 ELIGIBILITY CHECKLIST Page 30  
19.0 REFERENCES Page 31  
 
APPENDIX  
1. Study Schedule  
2. QoL Forms: Attached  
 
EORTC QLQ-C30  
EORTC QLQ-OV28  
QLQ score interpretation  
3. Carboplatin Calculation form  
4. FIGO Staging – endometrial cancer  
5. Abbreviation List  
6. Informed Consent Forms Attached  
 
 
SCHEMA 
 
Weeks 1-18  
 
Paclitaxel 135 mg/m2 over 3 hrs on day 1  
Carboplatin IP (AUC= 6.0) on day 1  
Paclitaxel 60 mg/m2 IP on Day 8 
Repeat q 21 days x 6 cycles  
CT Imaging after chemotherapy  
 
Weeks 19-23 **  
 
Pelvic 6MV Photon Beam Energy, or IMRT where appropriate  
1.8 Gy Dose/FX  Total Dose 45 Gy  
 
Weeks 24-26 **  
 
High Dose Radiation (HDR) x 3, or IMRT where appropriate  
5 Gy to 0.5cm Depth from the Vaginal Cylinder Surface  
Total Dose 15 Gy  
 
* Disease surveillance with CT imaging should be performed after six cycles of chemotherapy, 
prior to radiation. CT after 3 cycles of chemotherapy is permitted, depending upon physician’s 
discretion.  
** Radiotherapy is given to eligible patients who have not had prior radiation exposure radiation 
in the abdomen and pelvis.  
Quality of Life (QOL) surveys to be obtained at 3 time points  
Baseline (after surgery, prior to initiating first cycle)  
Completion of chemotherapy (18 weeks after Cycle 1 Day 1 if patient is no longer on protocol-
directed treatment)  
Completion of radiation therapy (26 weeks after Cycle 1 Day 1 if patient is no longer on 
protocol-directed treatment)  
Two years post diagnosis, if feasible.  
 
BACKGROUND  
 
Uterine corpus cancer is the most common gynecologic malignancy in the United States. If 
diagnosed at an early stage, it is associated with good prognosis, after surgery and adjuvant 
radiation +/- chemotherapy. However patients with high risk endometrial carcinoma have a 
significant risk for recurrent disease and mortality.  [1-3]  High risk features associated with poor 
prognosis include distinct histologic cell types (clear cell, serous and carcinosarcoma), grade (2 
or 3), and advanced stage. Uterine serous carcinoma (USC) is an uncommon, but aggressive 
variant of endometrial carcinoma that has poor response to standard therapy. In addition, it has a 
propensity for pelvic as well as abdominal recurrences and peritoneal carcinomatosis, similar to 
serous carcinoma of the ovary. In fact, many patients with disease apparently confined to the 
uterus will have microscopic intra-abdominal spread at the time of diagnosis. [4-8] After staging 
and surgical cytoreduction of gross disease, adjuvant radiation therapy is recommended to treat 
patients at high risk for recurrence.  [9-20] The Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG 94) 
evaluated patients with high risk endometrial cancer treated with whole abdominal and pelvic 
radiation, which included 103 patients with stage III/IV high risk uterine cancer subtypes such as 
clear cell carcinoma and USC. The overall recurrence rates were 67% at 3 years for these 
patients, and 21% occurred within the abdomen.[21]  In another study detailing 21 patients with 
stage I/II USC, more than half of recurrences were within the radiation field. [22] Thus, it 
appears that while pelvic radiation can limit local recurrences, a significant percentage of 
patients, approximately 25-30%, with high-risk features will recur with distant metastases after 
radiation therapy (RT). Even patients treated with whole abdominal irradiation are at risk for 
extra-abdominal recurrences with progression-free intervals of 7 to 8 months.  [23-25] 
Chemotherapy is expected to control pelvic as well as distant sites of failures in advanced or 
recurrent endometrial carcinoma. There have been several randomized trials addressing the 
efficacy of optimal chemotherapy regimen. Doxorubicin, in combination with platinum, has a 
42% response rate, and a survival advantage against whole abdominal radiation. [26, 27] 
Paclitaxel has an overall response rate of 36% in patients with advanced and recurrent 
endometrial cancer.  [28] In combination with doxorubicin and cisplatin, paclitaxel has been 
shown to have a superior survival advantage. However, due to the high rate of toxicity of this 
intense regimen, a review of literature shows most practicing gynecologic oncologists use a 
modified regimen of carboplatin and paclitaxel in the adjuvant setting instead. [29, 30]. Due to 
the propensity for systemic metastasis and recurrence in high risk uterine cancers, several studies 
have studied the combination of chemotherapy and radiation. Carboplatin and paclitaxel 
followed by pelvic RT in patients with advanced endometrial cancer, including patients with 
USC, appear to have acceptable toxicity profile and favorable survival.  [31-34] More 
specifically, in a large prospective phase II trial of USC patients receiving RT ‘sandwiched’ 
between six cycles of carboplatin and paclitaxel, excellent survival was observed in the entire 
cohort, with 3-year probability of survival for advanced stage (III/IV) patients being 50%. In 
patients who completed the entire treatment course, their 3-year survival was 65%. This 
compares favorably with published existing literature for USC, and is associated with limited, 
manageable toxicities.[35] 
 
Recent phase III trials in ovarian cancer have shown the longest survival advantage (median 65 
months) when intraperitoneal (IP) cisplatin and paclitaxel, plus intravenous (IV) paclitaxel were 
utilized for optimally debulked ovarian cancer (GOG 172). The relative risk of progression was 
0.80 (95% CI 0.64, 1.00) for the intraperitoneal group (p=0.05, two-sided log-rank test). [36] To 
date, no trials utilizing intraperitoneal therapy for uterine cancer have been reported. In advances 
stage and recurrent setting, high risk uterine cancer mirrors ovarian cancer with it spread patterns 
and response to therapy. Based on these findings and the similarities as well as the clinical 
success of paclitaxel with IP platinum therapy in patients with ovarian serous carcinoma, we 
propose to prospectively assess IV/IP therapy in patients with advanced stage and recurrent USC. 
In GOG 172, patients in the IP arm experienced significantly worse quality of life (QoL) prior to 
cycle 4 (p<0.0001), and worse QoL 3-6 weeks post treatment (p=0.0035). However QoL 
differences resolved one year post-treatment.[36] Only 42% of patients in the IP group 
completed 6 cycles of chemotherapy, and 49% received 3 or fewer cycles. The main reasons for 
discontinuing IP chemotherapy were 1) catheter complications 2) intolerance of high dose 
cisplatin with nausea, renal dysfunction and electrolyte disturbances 3) intolerance of distention 
from IP infusion. Since GOG 172, it has been shown in a number of IP therapy trials in ovarian 
cancer that implementation of strict pre and post hydration schedules, routine utilization of anti-
emetics, and substitution of carboplatin for cisplatin would improve adherence (due to its 
improved toxicity profile and less need for hydration).[37, 38]  GOG is currently conducting a 
Phase III trial in ovarian cancer that includes comparison of intraperitoneal cisplatin 75 mg/m2 
IP to carboplatin AUC 6 IP (GOG 252).  Preliminary data indicated no difference in PFS in 
patients receiving IV or IP chemotherapy, however, it was limited given all arms of the trial 
received Avastin. Data from the Japanese GOG (JGOG 3016), suggests the superiority of weekly 
dose dense paclitaxel, IV 80mg/m2 administered compared to paclitaxel IV given every three 
weeks.[39] The PFS was 17.2 months for the three week schedule and 28 months for the weekly 
schedule (p=0.0015 HR=0.714 (0.581-0.879). The 2-year overall survival was 77.7% for the 
three-week schedule and 83.6% for the weekly regimen (p=0.496 HR 0.735: 0.54-1.0). MITO-7 
is a randomized multicenter phase III trial.  Weekly paclitaxel had similar PFS and no difference 
in estimated probability of survival, as well as lower rates of toxicity.  [40]  In addition, there is 
also support for a weekly schedule over an every 3-week in the breast cancer literature. The 
superiority of weekly paclitaxel in node positive, or high risk node-negative breast cancer was 
reported by Sparano et al (HR 1.32, p=0.01).[41]  The existing literature supports the superiority 
of weekly paclitaxel regimen, and GOG 252 has included a confirmatory arm of dose-dense 
weekly paclitaxel, 80 mg/m2 versus paclitaxel 135 mg/m2 every three weeks for treatment of 
epithelial ovarian cancer. GOG 9920 is a phase I study that evaluated the toxicity associated with 
modified paclitaxel/doxorubicin/cisplatin regimen followed by IP cisplatin/paclitaxel for patients 
with advanced endometrial cancer.  Most patients had stage IV disease and the majority (59%) 
had serous/clear cell histology.  At median followup of 22 months, 46% of patients remained 
progression free.  [42]Building on the success of some recent trials and what is now considered 
standard of care for serous ovarian cancer, we propose a safety and feasibility study using for 
adjuvant therapy in women with advanced stage USC.  
 
 
2.0 OBJECTIVES  
 
Primary Objectives  
 
2.11 To evaluate the toxicity (as defined by NCI Common Toxicity Criteria v. 4.0) of IP 
carboplatin/IV paclitaxel followed by Day 8 IP paclitaxel chemotherapy given in 3 week cycles, 
followed by RT in patients with advanced stage USC.  
 
2.12 To determine the feasibility of this regimen in women with advanced stage USC. Feasibility 
will be assessed by: Treatment completion proportion – the proportion of participants who 
complete the IV paclit
... [truncated]