safety analysis of the relevant data will be done after the data collection is finished. 
 
Deviations to the statistical plan will be captured and reported in an update to this 
document, with justification. 
If data records are complete from subjects who dropped out of the study early, these data 
will also be used in the analysis. If the data sets are not complete, they will not be 
integrated at all. If a subject is dropping out before data collection is finished, the study 
team will try to complete as many data sets as possible. If a subject drops out before the 
first study visit the subject will be replaced if possible. 
Fit with Lyric devices 
Provides prescriptive 
amplification 
Yes 
Questionnaires; will 
be completed after 
each home trial for 
both devices 
Assesses subjective relating to 
the investigational device/feature 
No –These questionnaires were 
designed for this specific study. 
They are not validated for clinical 
outcomes. 
 
10 Investigation Duration  
The investigation is expected to last approximately 8 weeks. The expected duration for 
participation by the subjects is 4-5 weeks. 
11 Data Handling and Management 
Study data is recorded both with paper and with electronic Case Report Forms (p/eCRF). 
For each enrolled study participant a CRF is maintained. All CRFs are kept current to 
reflect the subject’s status at each phase during the course of study. Participants cannot 
be identified in the CRF by name or initials and birth date but an appropriate coded 
identification is used. All study team members are authorized for the CRF entries and it is 
assured that any authorized person can be identified both for pCRFs and eCRFs. If 
pCRFs are used, the investigator’s acronym as well as the subject ID is filled in and data 
are entered into an electronic file for analysis by the respective investigator and data get 
monitored by the assigned monitor. In case of a self-evident corrections, either the 
subject does it by himself or the investigator undertakes the correction by crossing out 
the word/sentence with a single horizontal line and by adding the correction including his 
personal identifier and the date. 
Source documents for this investigation include, audiograms, ALPs fitting files, Lyric 
history, including prior