adverse event 
occurring is extremely low. However, as per IRB policy, any serious or unexpected adverse events will be 
reported promptly (within 2-5 business days, depending on the nature of the event) to the IRB and the PRMC.  
F.6.2. Quality Assurance for Data Collection 
 PI: Martínez, Úrsula 
15 
The PI and research assistant will meet weekly to discuss recruitment and data collection issues and 
the study team will meet biweekly to discuss any possible additional issues. 
F.6.3. Quality Assurance for Data Management 
Data will be collected via paper and pencil measures. Data entered by staff will be double-entered and 
compared for inconsistencies. Validity checks of data values and ranges will be conducted upon data entry and 
again prior to analysis. To ensure participant confidentiality, baseline and follow-up assessment data will not 
include any unique identifiers. 
F.6.4. Data Integrity and Security 
To protect confidentiality all participants in the study will be provided a study number not linked to their 
own patient or tumor IDs to avoid data breach. Once all data have been linked to individuals, all identifiers will 
be deleted. IRB approvals and participant documents will be kept in a locked location. All computers will be 
password-protected. Only trained grant personnel will have access to data.  
F.6.5. Identification of Adverse Effects 
Potential risks of the study are judged to be minor. In the case of a patient experiencing discomfort 
completing the measures or appearing distressed, a social worker will assist with making the appropriate 
referrals. The PI will monitor the study for adverse events and report adverse events to the institution’s protocol 
monitoring committee, IRB, and funding sponsor as required. 
F.7. Overall Structure of the Study Team 
The primary site of the study will be the Tobacco Research and Intervention Program (TRIP) at the 
Moffitt Cancer Center. All study investigators have offices at TRIP. We will use an electronic system that will 
allow sorting for patients reporting current smoking. Potential participants will be called over the phone or 
approached during medical visits at the respective clinics.  
The PI of the study, Dr. Martínez, has background in smoking cessation treatments for the general and 
oncology patient population. She will be supported by senior co-investigators, Drs. Brandon and Simmons, 
who have expertise in all aspects of the proposed research and a history of successful NIH funding. The team 
is enhanced by the inclusion of Dr. Warren as a consultant who will provide medical expertise. Finally, a 
research assistant will be trained to help with recruitment and follow-up of study participants. 
F.8. Statistical Design and Power 
We expect to include a total of 50 cancer patients (10 per cancer site) in this study. Assuming follow-up 
of 80% of enrolled participants across the 5 cancer sites, 2-tailed α of .05, and power (1-β) of .80, this study 
will be powered to detect a small-medium effect size (f) of .20. 
Acceptability and feasibility will be evaluated using descriptive statistics. For acceptability we will 
assess patients’ treatment satisfaction through the mean scores of a questionnaire based on the CSQ and 
open-ended feedback from participants. This questionnaire will also inform about how many participants read 
the intervention materials, which will be used as an indicator of demand (criterion: ≥80% of participants 
enrolled in Study II). Feasibility will be measured by the number of patients meeting inclusion criteria to 
participate in the study, agreement to participate in the study (≥75% of those meeting inclusion criteria and 
approached to participate), percentage of participants completing baseline assessment measures (≥85% of 
those who agree to participate in the study), and percentage of participants completing the one week and one-
month follow-up assessment (≥80% of those who completed baseline). Changes in cessation motivation and 
Teachable Moment Model variables will be assessed using repeated-measures Analysis of Variance (ANOVA). 
 Finally, we will receive data from MCC’s TTSs on whether participants followed through with referrals to them 
and we will capture basic website analytics. These will serve as behavioral indicators of cessation motivation. 
 PI: Martínez, Úrsula 
16 
Other collected variables will also be examined on an exploratory basis. For example, sex differences 
will be analyzed, as will differences between cancers typically affecting women (gynecological, breast) versus 
men (bladder).  
The pilot study will not include a control group, nor be powered to test moderator or mediator variables. 
However, results will inform on the feasibility and scope of a potential, subsequent RCT. 
F.9. Dissemination Plan 
This Study will be registered as an NIH funded trial at ClinicalTrials.gov within 21 calendar days after 
the first human subject is enrolled. Rationale for the study, description of patient eligibility, recruitment 
procedures, location of study procedures and contact information will be provided. Moffitt Cancer Center’s 
institutional policy, “Clinical Trials Registration and Reporting Requirement” mandates that the Clinical 
Research Operations team within the Office of Clinical Research Administration registers institutional clinical 
trials following IRB approval and documents registrations by other entities for external trials according to 
prescribed timelines. Reporting responsibilities may not be transferred without approval by the Vice President 
of Clinical Research Administration. 
Informed consent documents for the clinical trial will include a specific statement relating to posting of 
clinical trial information at ClinicalTrials.gov. 
Final results from this trial will be submitted to ClinicalTrials.gov within 12 months after final data 
collection for