adverse events. 
 
Week 4 – Visit 2: 
Study participants will return to the TRU to complete HRV and the study questionnaires specified in section F 
of the protocol. The participant’s pain score and blood pressure will be obtained and documented on the MD 
Assessment Form. Participants who were randomized to receive sham therapy during weeks 0 to 4 will receive 
an active device. The study investigator will instruct these patients to turn it up until they feel it, then reduce the 
intensity until it just disappears.  They will be asked to use the unit for a minimum of 1 hour, twice a day, until 
they return to CHW at Week 8 – Visit 3.  The patient will determine what time during the day that they will 
utilize the unit, depending on their schedule.  To document the placement and the time of day that the unit is 
use, a data collection form (diary) will be provided.  A study team member’s contact information will also be 
provided if the patient has any questions or concerns.    
 
Participants who were randomized to receive active microstimulation at Week 0 - Visit 1, will continue to 
receive active microstimulation until they return at Week 8 – Visit 3. 
 
A member of the TRU who is qualified to perform phlebotomy will collect the blood samples for the analysis of 
cytokines and flow cytometry. The participant’s pain score and blood pressure will be obtained and documented 
on the MD Assessment Form. The coded blood samples will be escorted by a member of the research team to 
Dr. Verbsky’s lab where they will be prepared and frozen for later analysis by a member of the research team 
and/or by Dr. Verbsky’s laboratory technologist. 
 
Week 8 – Visit 3: 
Study participants will return to the TRU where they will complete HRV, the study questionnaires specified in 
section F of the protocol and a blood draw for cytokines and flow cytometry. The participant’s pain score and 
blood pressure will be obtained and documented on the MD Assessment Form. The coded blood samples will 
be escorted by a member of the research team to Dr. Verbsky’s lab where they will be prepared and frozen for 
later analysis by a member of the research team or by Dr. Verbsky’s laboratory technologist. 
 
Participants will receive a $20 check following the completion of each of the first study visit, a $20 check after 
completing the second visit and $30 for completing the final study visit. All checks will be written in the 
participant’s name.  
 
E. 
TOTAL NUMBER OF HUMAN RESEARCH PARTICIPANTS PROPOSED FOR THIS STUDY 
AT THIS SITE AND GLOBALLY.  WHAT ARE THESE NUMBERS BASED ON? 
For this pilot protocol, we will enroll 30 subjects from the Functional and Gastrointestinal Disorders Clinics in 
Children’s Hospital of Wisconsin. The PI and her nurse practitioner see 16 patients with FGID per week. We 
have been performing many studies in our clinic and patients are usually very eager to participate; therefore, we 
are not concerned about the feasibility of completing this pilot study in 1 year. Furthermore, the study was 
designed so that every subject gets the active intervention, in part to increase enrollment and retention. 
 
F. 
DRUGS OR PROCEDURES  
MD Assessment Form 
Investigating physicians will perform a brief medical assessment with the participant to confirm study 
eligibility. This assessment includes a detailed history of gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, 
abdominal pain, location of pain, duration & frequency of symptoms, bowel movements – frequency and 
consistency. In addition, this form will be used to evaluate non-gastrointestinal comorbid burden such as 
abdominal migraine and cyclic vomiting syndrome, temporomandibular joint disorder (TMJ), chronic fatigue, 
urinary symptoms, pelvic pain (including dysmenorrhea, endometriosis etc.), other chronic pain types, 
Raynaud’s syndrome, syncope, postural tachycardia syndrome, chronic nausea or vomiting, complex regional 
pain syndrome, panic disorder, PTSD, anxiety and affective disorders and fibromyalgia (original criteria), 
evaluated by assessing 18 tender points described by the American College of Rheumatology34. Each symptom 
will be ranked as not present, possible, probable or definite based on the appropriate consensus criteria. 
 
Blinding methodology: Patients will be informed that we are comparing 2 methods of ear stimulation, tactile 
and active.  Both methods will be explained (either setting the machine at 0.02mA and using dry, non-
conductive pads, or moving the device up until the stimulus is just experienced and then lowering until it is no 
longer experienced).  Because the first stimulus is tactile, we will not use the word “sham” or “placebo”, as we 
do not know that a tactile stimulus does not have some effect. In fact, ear piercings are popular for these 
symptoms. After both methods are explained the subject will demonstrate understanding of each.  Once home, 
the patient will open a sealed envelope that was prepared by an independent research coordinator, and unknown 
to the investigator or the performing research coordinator, that instructs them as to which method to utilize.  
Only the independent research coordinator and the biostatistician will know the arm assigned. At the 
participant’s Week 4 visit, the researcher will collect the previously used TENS unit device. The research 
coordinator will then provide all participants with another auricular device and letter which will include 
instructions on how to use the device during the remaining 4 weeks. It is remotely possible that some subjects 
will realize that the tactile form of the stimulation with dry cotton pads is actually a sham version of the 
stimulator.  We think this is unlikely for 2 reasons.  First, tactile stimulation of the ear is in fact sometimes 
referenced in the popular literature as a treatment (though this has not been formally tested).  Second, neither 
version of the stimulator produces any conscious electrical sensation, so they will be quite comparable from an 
experiential perspective. In addition, the fact that tactile stimulation may have some effect will not alter the 
fundamental goal of this protocol, as we will be looking at the difference between the tactile and the electrical 
stimulating version.  It is possible and permitted that the participant and the research team will become aware of 
which group the participant was initially assigned at the Week 4 visit. 
 
TENS unit and Auricular Clip Placement 
The TENS unit and auricular clip will first be placed by a qualified study investigator (physician) who will also 
provide teaching to the participant and family on how to place it at home.  TENS unit applied to the inner part 
of each ear (conchae) by a qualified study investigator using a clip that is provided. The active settings will be 
set to the following: Micro mode, pulse width: 50 millisecond (ms), a frequency of 10 Hertz (hz), and intensity 
at sub-sensory threshold. This is the same process used for standard of care.   
 
 
Heart rate variability (HRV) using the Faros ECG 360 
The Faros ECG 360 is a remote electrocardiography monitoring system that is used 
for real-time HRV measurements.  The ECG data will be transmitted from 3-5 
electrodes (stickers) placed on the body (pictured below) to a mobile device through 
Bluetooth.  The data can be retrieved in two ways: through a web browser for 
analyzing or with real time monitoring view on a computer.  A password protected 
laptop will be used to import the data and then to import it into an HRV analysis 
software.   
 
Heart rate variability will be collected using the FAROS 360 device. Electrode leads will be placed according to 
the diagram found in section F. The patient will be asked to lie supine in a dark, quiet room for 15 minutes and 
then asked to stand for an additional 5 minutes. A member of the research team or TRU nurse will be present 
during this recording to document if the patient moves or coughs. The patient will be allowed to sit or lie down 
if he/she is unable to stand for the entire time however, this will also be documented.  
 
Questionnaires to be completed for research purposes 
1.  Functional Disability Inventory (FDI) will be completed by the participant (FDI-Child and Adolescent Form) 
and his/her parent (FDI-Parent Form).  The FDI assesses the functional status of each subject. This brief 15-
item instrument is widely used to assess functional disability in pediatric samples35, including pediatric pain 
36,37. Both self- and parent proxy-reports will be used. The FDI has strong internal consistency (males α = 0.86; 
females α = 0.91), reliability, and validity36. Developed and validated by Walker35, the FDI measures daily 
functions on a 5-point Likert scale such as ambulation, recreation, capacity for social interaction, performing 
chores, going to school, sleep, and eating. Validated for children with chronic abdominal pain, it shows 
excellent test-retest reliability within 2 weeks, and moderate at 3 months. It correlates well with school-related 
disabilities and both the child-report and the parent-report scores correlate with abdominal pain measures and 
other somatic symptoms36,37. 
 
2. Symptom Intensity Questionnaire score will be used to identify the most prominent 5 complaints rated in a 10 
cm Likert scale the intensity form.  Patients will write in each of their top 5 most severe symptoms on the 
corresponding line. They will then rate the symptoms severity from none (0 cm) to worst you can possibly 
imagine (10 cm) by placing a vertical line on the scale. 
 
3.  The Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS) will be completed by the participant (PCS-C) and his/her parent (PCS-
P). The PCS-C is a modification of the adult Pain Catastrophizing Scale for use in children, measures pain-
related cognitions and the dimensions of helplessness, rumination and magnification. This measure has both 
child-report and parent-report forms38. 
 
4.  The Revised 
... [truncated]