
--- Page 1 ---
 
Official Title: 
RANDOMIZED, MULTICENTER, PHASE III, OPEN-LABEL STUDY 
OF ALECTINIB VERSUS CRIZOTINIB IN ASIAN PATIENTS WITH 
TREATMENT-NAIVE ANAPLASTIC LYMPHOMA 
KINASE−POSITIVE ADVANCED NON−SMALL CELL LUNG 
CANCER 
NCT Number: 
NCT02838420 
Document Date: 
SAP Amendment/Version 2: 08-Aug-18 
 
 
 


--- Page 2 ---
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN APPROVAL 
CONFIDENTIAL 
This is an F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd document that contains confidential information.  Nothing 
herein is to be disclosed without written consent from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. 
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN 
TITLE: 
RANDOMIZED, MULTICENTER, PHASE III, OPEN-LABEL 
STUDY OF ALECTINIB VERSUS CRIZOTINIB IN ASIAN 
PATIENTS WITH TREATMENT-NAIVE ANAPLASTIC 
LYMPHOMA KINASE-POSITIVE ADVANCED 
NON-SMALL CELL LUNG CANCER 
PROTOCOL NUMBER: 
STUDY DRUG: 
VERSION NUMBER: 
IND NUMBER: 
EUDRACT NUMBER: 
SPONSOR: 
PLAN PREPARED BY: 
DATE FINAL: 
DATE(S) AMENDED 
YO29449 
Alectinib (RO5424802) 
2 
111723 
2013-004133-33 
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
See electronic date stamp below. 
See electronic date stamp below.
Name
Reason for Signing
Date and Time
(UTC)
08-Aug-2018 08:25:38
Company Signatory


--- Page 3 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
2/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND ............................................................................................ 4 
2. 
STUDY DESIGN ........................................................................................... 4 
2.1 
Protocol Synopsis .................................................................... 5 
2.2 
Determination of Sample Size ................................................. 5 
2.3 
Analysis Timing ....................................................................... 5 
3. 
STUDY CONDUCT ....................................................................................... 6 
3.1 
Randomization Issues ............................................................. 6 
3.2 
Independent Review Facility .................................................... 6 
4. 
STATISTICAL METHODS ............................................................................ 7 
4.1 
Analysis Populations ............................................................... 7 
4.1.1 
Intent-To-Treat Population ....................................................... 7 
4.1.2 
Safety Population .................................................................... 7 
4.1.3 
Pharmacokinetic Evaluable Population ................................... 7 
4.2 
Analysis of Study Conduct ....................................................... 7 
4.3 
Analysis of Treatment Group Comparability ............................ 7 
4.4 
Efficacy Analysis ...................................................................... 8 
4.4.1 
Primary Efficacy Endpoint ........................................................ 8 
4.4.2 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoints ................................................. 8 
4.4.3 
Sensitivity Analyses ............................................................... 11 
4.4.4 
Subgroup Analyses ............................................................... 11 
4.5 
Pharmacokinetic and Pharmacodynamic 
Analyses ................................................................................ 11 
4.6 
Safety Analyses ..................................................................... 12 
4.6.1 
Exposure of Study Medication ............................................... 12 
4.6.2 
Adverse Events ..................................................................... 12 
4.6.3 
Laboratory Data ..................................................................... 14 
4.6.4 
Vital Signs .............................................................................. 14 
4.6.5 
Electrocardiograms ................................................................ 14 
4.7 
PATIENT-REPORTED OUTCOME ANALYSES ................... 15 


--- Page 4 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
3/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
4.7.1 
Time to Deterioration of Patient-Reported Lung 
Cancer Symptoms, Global Health Status, and Cognitive 
Function 
15 
4.7.2 
Additional Patient-Reported Outcomes Analyses .................. 17 
5. 
REFERENCES ........................................................................................... 18 
PROTOCOL SYNOPSIS .................................................................................... 19 
 
 
LIST OF TABLES 
Table 1 Required Number of PFS Events to Show Consistency .......................... 6 
 
LIST OF FIGURES 
Figure 1 Summary of Study Design ...................................................................... 4 
 
 
 
LIST OF APPENDICES 
Appendix 1 
Protocol Synopsis ....................................................................... 19 


--- Page 5 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
4/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
1. 
BACKGROUND 
Alectinib is a small molecule that is highly selective and a potent inhibitor of anaplastic 
lymphoma kinase (ALK). Alectinib is currently being developed for the treatment of 
patients who have ALK-positive non−small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).  
2. 
STUDY DESIGN 
This is a randomized, active-controlled, multicenter, Phase III, open-label study in 
patients with treatment-naive ALK-positive advanced NSCLC. All patients are 
required to provide pretreatment tumor tissue to confirm the presence of ALK 
rearrangement (by immunohistochemistry [IHC] test). Patients will be randomized 
2:1 into one of the two treatment arms to receive either alectinib or crizotinib. 
Figure 1 Summary of Study Design 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*: ECOG PS at baseline (0/1 vs. 2) and CNS metastases at baseline by 
investigator (yes vs. no) 
a Frequent blood sampling will be performed in a subset of 20 Chinese patients enrolled to 
receive alectinib treatment to facilitate the characterization of alectinib pharmacokinetics. 
  
  
  
Screening assessment 
2:1 Randomization 
with stratification factor*
(n = 183) 
600 mg BID
alectinib a
250 mg BID 
crizotinib 
Until disease progression, unacceptable 
toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or death 
Subsequent therapy for NSCLC and Survival follow-up 


--- Page 6 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
5/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
2.1 
PROTOCOL SYNOPSIS 
The Protocol Synopsis is in Appendix 1.   
 
2.2 
DETERMINATION OF SAMPLE SIZE 
The primary endpoint of investigator-assessed PFS was used to determine the sample 
size of the study.  The primary objective of the study is to reliably determine whether the 
benefit (in terms of investigator-assessed PFS) of administrating alectinib in this study is 
consistent with the benefit observed in the global pivotal study ALEX (BO28984).  
Consistency is defined as maintaining ≥ 50% of risk reduction from ALEX.  That is, 
assuming the estimated PFS HR for study ALEX is 0.65 (i.e., 35% risk reduction), if the 
point estimate of HR from study YO29449 is less than 0.83, then the study’s primary 
objective to demonstrate consistency is met. 
Based on the assumption of PFS HR = 0.65, a total of 97 PFS events are required to 
achieve approximately 87% probability to show consistency.  In this study, 183 patients 
will be enrolled in a 2:1 randomization allocation.  Based on the assumption that the 
median PFS is 10.9 months for the crizotinib arm and 16.8 months for the alectinib arm 
(HR = 0.65) and patients are to be enrolled over approximately 13 months; the primary 
PFS analysis is expected to occur approximately 23 months after the first patient is 
enrolled. 
No interim analysis for efficacy or futility is planned. 
The first survival analysis will be performed together with the primary PFS analysis. The 
final survival analysis will be performed once approximately 55% of patients have died.  
The median OS in the crizotinib arm is assumed to be 24 months, and the expected 
median OS in the alectinib treatment arm is 30 months, equating to an HR of 0.8.  The 
survival follow-up analysis is expected to occur approximately 41 months after the first 
patient has been enrolled. 
 
2.3 
ANALYSIS TIMING 
The number of PFS events required to show consistency depends on the HR observed 
in ALEX. The required number of PFS events to achieve approximate 87% probability to 
meet consistency criteria is listed as below.  
 
 


--- Page 7 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
6/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
Table 1 Required Number of PFS Events to Show Consistency 
HR Observed 
in ALEX 
Consistency Criteria (HR)
No. of PFS Events 
Required  
0.65 
0.83 
97 
0.6 
0.8 
70 
0.55 
0.78 
50 
0.5 
0.75 
35 
HR = hazard ratio; PFS = progression-free survival. 
 
The primary analysis of PFS will occur when the required number of PFS events is 
expected approximately 22 months after the first patient has been enrolled. If number of 
PFS events is not enough for the estimation of median PFS, an updated PFS analysis 
will be done when approximately 55% of patients have had PFS events.  
The first survival analysis will be performed together with the primary PFS analysis. The 
final survival analysis will be performed when approximately 55% patients have died. 
The study will formally end when the survival follow-up analysis is complete and the last 
patient has permanently discontinued treatment with alectinib and performed the Study 
Completion or Study Treatment Discontinuation assessments (Post-Treatment Visit). 
3. 
STUDY CONDUCT 
3.1 
RANDOMIZATION ISSUES 
Patients will be randomly assigned in a 2:1 allocation ratio to one of the two treatment 
arms to receive either alectinib or crizotinib via a block stratified randomization 
procedure.  
Randomization will guard against systematic selection bias and should ensure the 
comparability of treatment groups. To assist balance in important prognostic factors, 
randomization will be stratified by Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance 
Status (ECOG PS; 0/1 vs. 2), and CNS metastases at baseline (yes vs. no).  
3.2 
INDEPENDENT REVIEW FACILITY 
An independent imaging group will be used to evaluate tumor assessments for 
determination of progression and response rate according to Response Evaluation 
Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Version 1.1 for the secondary efficacy endpoint of 
PFS analysis. Imaging studies (computed tomography [CT]/magnetic resonance imaging 
[MRI]/bone scans) will be acquired according to a standard protocol and will be 
forwarded to the independent reviewers. In addition, relevant cytologic and medical data 
(e.g., relevant cytology reports documenting malignant pleural effusions, bone marrow 
aspirations, cerebral spinal fluid, CNS symptoms, corticosteroid use, etc.) may be 
forwarded, if available, to the independent reviewers to aid with assessment of 
progressive disease (PD) and response. Investigator tumor assessments will not be 
reconciled with the Independent Review Committee (IRC) tumor assessments. Further 


--- Page 8 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
7/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
details are included in the IRC Charter. Details of imaging handling procedures are also 
described in a separate laboratory manual.  
For evaluation of the CNS endpoints, the IRC will perform an assessment of scans 
based on RECIST v1.1 and Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria. 
More details are given in the IRC charter. 
4. 
STATISTICAL METHODS 
The analyses outlined in this Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP) supersede those specified 
in the protocol for the purpose of a regulatory filing. 
4.1 
ANALYSIS POPULATIONS 
4.1.1 
Intent-To-Treat Population 
The primary analysis population for efficacy is the intent-to-treat (ITT) population, 
defined as all randomized patients. Patients will be assigned to the treatment group to 
which they were randomized.  
4.1.2 
Safety Population 
The primary analysis population for safety is the Safety Population, defined as all 
patients who received at least one dose of study medication. Patients will be assigned to 
treatment groups as treated, and all patients who received any dose of alectinib will be 
included in the alectinib treatment arm. 
4.1.3 
Pharmacokinetic Evaluable Population 
The PK Evaluable Population is defined as all patients who received any dose of 
alectinib and who had at least one quantifiable post-baseline PK sample available.  
The Frequent PK Evaluable Population is defined as the patients who underwent 
frequent PK sampling at Visit 0 (Baseline) on Day 1 and Visit 2 (Week 4) in the PK 
Evaluable Population and provided sufficient PK timepoints to perform the NCA PK 
analysis. 
4.2 
ANALYSIS OF STUDY CONDUCT 
Study enrollment, patient disposition, reasons for discontinuation from the study 
treatment, and reason for study termination will be summarized for all patients in the ITT 
population.  
Protocol deviations, including deviations of inclusion/exclusion criteria and deviations 
during study conduct will be reported and summarized.  
4.3 
ANALYSIS OF TREATMENT GROUP COMPARABILITY 
Demographic, baseline disease characteristics, and lung cancer history, including prior 
brain radiation, will be compared descriptively between both treatment arms for the ITT 
population. Descriptive baseline summaries of continuous data will present the group 
mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, and maximum. Descriptive baseline 
summaries of discrete data will present the category counts as frequencies and 
percentages.  


--- Page 9 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
8/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
A summary of concordance of stratification factors determined by electronic Case Report 
Form (eCRF) versus interactive voice or Web-based response system (IxRS) will also be 
reported.  
The baseline value of any variable will be defined as the last available value recorded 
prior to the first administration of study medication.  
Previous and concomitant cancer therapy will also be summarized, including 
radiotherapy and surgery, as well as subsequent anti-cancer therapy. Previous and 
concurrent diseases and medications will also be summarized.  
4.4 
EFFICACY ANALYSIS 
4.4.1 
Primary Efficacy Endpoint 
PFS is defined as the time from date of randomization to the date of first documented 
disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. The primary endpoint of PFS will 
be determined on the basis of investigator assessment of progression using RECIST 
v1.1. Patients who have not experienced disease progression or death at the time of 
analysis will be censored at the last tumor assessment date either during study 
treatment or during follow-up. Patients with no post-baseline tumor assessment will be 
censored at the date of randomization.  
Patients who discontinue treatment prior to disease progression (e.g., due to toxicity) will 
continue in the study and will be followed until disease progression and for OS 
regardless of whether they subsequently receive anti-cancer therapy.  
The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the median PFS for each treatment 
arm with 95% confidence limits, and a Kaplan-Meier curve will be constructed to provide 
a visual description of the difference between the treatment arms.  A stratified 
Cox proportional hazard regression model will be used including treatment in order to 
provide an estimate of the treatment effect expressed as an HR (alectinib vs. crizotinib), 
as well as a 95% CI.  The stratification factors are the randomization stratification factors:  
ECOG PS (0/1 vs. 2) as recorded on the eCRF, and CNS metastases at baseline 
(yes vs. no) as assessed by IRC unless otherwise specified. The stratification factors will 
be included in the analysis as long as an individual stratum includes > 10% of the ITT 
population. Point estimate of the adjusted HR will be compared with the consistency 
threshold (observed HR of 0.47 in study ALEX).   
The treatment comparison of PFS will also be assessed based on a stratified log-rank 
test to demonstrate the strength of consistent trend. However, p-values will be for 
descriptive purpose.  Results from an unstratified log-rank test will also be presented as 
a supportive analysis.  
 
4.4.2 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoints 
All secondary efficacy endpoints will be analyzed in the ITT population unless otherwise 
specified. The stratification factors will be the same as for the analysis of the primary 
efficacy endpoint. Results from unstratified tests will also be presented as supportive 
analyses.  


--- Page 10 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
9/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
PFS by IRC  
An analysis of PFS on the basis of the IRC assessments will be performed using the 
same methodology as specified for PFS on the basis of investigator assessment.  
A concordance analysis between the IRC-determined and the investigator-determined 
PD status (yes vs. no) will be provided by treatment arm together with a summary of 
agreement between the IRC-determined and the investigator-determined PD dates. The 
early discrepancy rate (investigator assessed prior to IRC) and the late discrepancy rate 
(investigator assessed after IRC) will be calculated for each treatment arm and the 
differential discordance calculated as the rate on the alectinib arm minus the rate on the 
crizotinib arm (Amit et al. 2011).  
Time to CNS Progression by IRC RECIST Criteria  
Time to CNS progression is defined as the time from randomization until first 
radiographic evidence of CNS progression by independent review. An independent 
central radiological review will be performed for all patients, and the analysis of CNS 
progression will be based on the data from the independent review. All ITT patients will 
be included in the analysis regardless of their baseline status of CNS metastases. CNS 
progression is defined as progression due to newly developed CNS lesions and/or 
progression of preexisting baseline CNS lesions. On the basis of RECIST v1.1, this is 
defined as a new post-baseline CNS/brain lesion(s) and/or an increase of ≥ 20% in the 
sum of longest diameters of the measurable baseline CNS lesions compared with nadir 
and/or unequivocal progression of non-measurable baseline CNS lesions.  
Non-CNS progression without prior CNS progression and death without prior 
CNS or non-CNS progression are regarded as competing risks for CNS 
Progression. In order to account for the competing risks inherent in the comparison of 
CNS progression between alectinib and crizotinib, a stratified two-sided log-rank test will 
be computed on the basis of a cause-specific hazard function. Cause-specific hazard 
ratios and corresponding 95% CI will be derived from stratified cause-specific 
Cox proportional regression models. Results from unstratified tests will also be 
presented as supportive analyses.  
The probability of CNS progression, non-CNS progression, and death by treatment 
group with 95% CIs will each be estimated using cumulative incidence functions. Gray’s 
test to compare the risk of CNS progression between alectinib and crizotinib will also be 
performed as a supportive analysis.  
Similar analyses of CNS progression based on IRC RANO criteria will be performed.  
Objective Response Rate  
ORR, on the basis of investigator assessment, is defined as the percentage of ITT 
patients with measurable disease at baseline who attain a complete response (CR) or 
partial response (PR). Per RECIST v1.1, confirmation of objective response is not 
required for this secondary endpoint. Patients without a post-baseline tumor assessment 
will be considered non-responders, as will patients with a best overall response of stable 
disease (SD), PD, or not evaluable (NE).  


--- Page 11 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
10/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
An estimate of ORR and its two-sided 95% CI will be calculated using the Clopper-
Pearson method for each treatment arm. Response rates in the treatment groups will be 
compared using a stratified Mantel-Haenszel test, including the randomization 
stratification factors. Results from unstratified tests will also be presented as supportive 
analyses. The difference in ORR between the two treatment arms will be presented 
together with a two-sided 95% CI on the basis of a normal approximation to the binomial 
distribution.  
ORR by IRC will be analyzed similarly as a supportive analysis in the population of 
patients identified to have measureable disease at baseline according to the IRC.  
Duration of Response  
For patients with measurable disease at baseline who have experienced an objective 
response (CR or PR) during the study as assessed by the investigator, duration of 
response (DOR) is defined as the duration from the first tumor assessment that supports 
the patient’s objective response (CR or PR, whichever is first recorded) to first 
documented disease progression or death due to any causes, whichever occurred first. 
Patients who have not progressed or died at the time of analysis will be censored at the 
last tumor assessment date. DOR will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology 
and an HR and its 95% CI on the basis of a Cox proportional regression model with 
stratification factors will be calculated.   
Overall Survival  
OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any 
cause. Patients who are not reported as having died at the time of analysis will be 
censored at the date when they were last known to be alive. Patients who do not have 
post-baseline information will be censored at the date of randomization. OS will be 
analyzed using the same methodology as specified for the primary endpoint. A survival 
follow-up analysis will be performed based on more mature data.  
CNS Objective Response Rate (CORR) according to RECIST v1.1 and RANO 
criteria by IRC  
CORR will be summarized by treatment group in the subgroup of patients in the ITT 
population who have measurable CNS lesions at baseline as determined by the IRC. 
These summaries will be provided for both RECIST v1.1 and RANO. CNS responses 
according to RECIST v1.1 do not have to be confirmed, whereas confirmation is 
incorporated into the RANO criteria.  
CORR will be summarized by treatment group in the subgroup of patients in the ITT 
population who have measurable and non-measurable CNS lesions at baseline as 
determined by the IRC. For this analysis, patients with non-measurable CNS disease at 
baseline by IRC who experience a CR in CNS lesions will be included as responders.  
In addition, a subgroup analysis of CORR will be performed according to prior brain 
radiation status (yes vs. no) for the two analysis populations above if applicable, i.e. at 
least 10% patients had prior brain radiation .  
CNS Duration of Response (CDOR) according to RECIST v1.1 and RANO criteria 
by IRC  


--- Page 12 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
11/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
This analysis will be performed including all patients in the ITT population who have 
measurable CNS lesions at baseline as determined by the IRC who had a CNS 
response (CR or PR). CDOR is time from CNS response to CNS PD by IRC. 
4.4.3 
Sensitivity Analyses 
A sensitivity analysis will be performed on the primary endpoint of PFS with the following 
changes from the primary analysis:  
• Censor patients at the last adequate tumor assessment prior to the start of 
non−protocol-specified anti-cancer therapy received prior to observing progression.  
4.4.4 
Subgroup Analyses 
PFS by investigator and IRC assessments will be presented separately for important 
subgroups including age (< 65, ≥ 65), sex, smoking status, and baseline prognostic 
characteristics including baseline ECOG PS, CNS metastases at baseline as determined 
by IRC, and prior brain radiation (in patients with CNS metastases at baseline). The HR 
including a 95% CI will be presented separately for each level of the categorical 
variables.  
4.5 
PHARMACOKINETIC AND PHARMACODYNAMIC ANALYSES 
Frequent PK analyses will be based on the Frequent PK Evaluable Population. All the 
other PK analyses will be based on the PK Evaluable Population. 
Standard non-compartmental analysis (NCA) will be conducted for PK data collected 
from patients participating in serial/intensive PK collections for relevant analytes. PK 
parameters, including but not limited to area under the concentration-time curve (AUC), 
maximum concentration (Cmax), and time to maximum concentration (tmax), will be 
calculated on the basis of the available data as appropriate and where data allow. 
Additional PK parameters may be calculated as deemed appropriate.  
Individual and mean plasma concentrations at each sampling timepoint and/or PK 
parameters for alectinib and metabolite(s) will be listed, as appropriate. Summary 
statistics (e.g., means, standard deviation, coefficient of variation percent, geometric 
means, medians, and ranges) for plasma concentrations and/or PK parameters for 
alectinib and metabolite(s) will be presented by nominal collection times (plasma 
concentrations only), as appropriate. Additional plots or summary statistics may be 
constructed or calculated, as appropriate.  
The results of frequent PK analyses as well as other PK analyses based on the PK 
Evaluable Population have already been reported in the separate PK CSR and will not 
be included in this primary CSR. 
Non-linear mixed-effects modeling (with software NONMEM) will be used to analyze the 
sparse and/or serial/intensive plasma concentration-time data for alectinib. The PK data 
from this study may be pooled with data from other studies. Population and individual PK 
parameters will be estimated and the influence of various covariates (such as age, sex, 
and body weight) on these parameters will be investigated. Exploratory analyses will be 
conducted to investigate the relationship between alectinib PK exposure and 
efficacy/safety parameters.  


--- Page 13 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
12/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
Results of the mixed-effects modeling and exploratory analyses will be reported in a 
document separate from the CSR.  
4.6 
SAFETY ANALYSES 
All safety analyses will be performed on the Safety Population; that is, all patients who 
receive any dose of study medication (see Section 4.1.2) by treatment arm, and as such, 
all patients who received any dose of alectinib will be included in the alectinib treatment 
arm.  
4.6.1 
Exposure of Study Medication 
Study treatment (alectinib and crizotinib) exposure, including treatment duration, dose 
intensity, number of doses, missed dose, and total cumulative dose will be summarized 
with descriptive statistics.  
4.6.2 
Adverse Events 
Verbatim description of adverse events will be mapped to MedDRA thesaurus terms and 
graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for 
Adverse Events, Version 4.0 (NCI CTCAE v4.0). All adverse events occurring during or 
after the first study treatment will be listed and summarized by mapped term, appropriate 
thesaurus level and NCI CTCAE grade.  
Summary tables of the following will be provided:  
• 
All adverse events  
• 
Serious adverse events  
• 
Severe adverse events (Grade 3 or higher)  
• 
Adverse events leading to study treatment discontinuation  
• 
Adverse events leading to dose reduction  
• 
Adverse events leading to dose interruption  
• 
Treatment-related adverse events  
• 
Adverse events leading to death  
• 
Adverse events by highest NCI CTCAE grade  
• 
Selected adverse events relating to ALK inhibitors and/or the tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor class and alectinib data  
A summary table of common adverse events, that is, those occurring in at least 10% of 
patients, will be provided.  
A summary table of adverse events with a difference in incidence of 5% of patients 
between treatment arms will be provided. 
 
Selected adverse events are defined as follows and are subject to change for any 
updates at program level:  
Gastrointestinal (GI) tract AEs 


--- Page 14 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
13/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
– 
MedDRA SOC:  Gl disorders 
– 
Stomatitis 
MedDRA PTs:  stomatitis and mouth ulceration 
• 
Muscular AEs and creatine phosphokinase (CPK) elevations 
– 
MedDRA HLGTs:  Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders not 
elsewhere classified (NEC), Enzyme investigations NEC, and Muscle disorders 
– 
Myalgia 
MedDRA PTs:  myalgia and musculoskeletal pain 
• 
Hepatocellular and cholestatic damage, liver AEs, and abnormal liver laboratory 
tests 
– 
MedDRA SMQ:  Drug related hepatic disorders, narrow 
– 
Bilirubin increased 
MedDRA PT:  Blood Bilirubin Increased, Hyperbilirubinaemia, Bilirubin 
Conjugated Increased 
• 
Skin disorders 
– 
MedDRA SOC:  Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
– 
Rash 
MedDRA PTs:  rash, rash maculo-papular, dermatitis acneiform, erythema, 
rash generalised, rash macular, rash papular, exfoliative rash, and rash 
pruritic 
– 
Photosensitivity 
MedDRA PT:  photosensitivity reaction 
• 
Vision disorders 
– 
MedDRA SOC:  Eye disorders 
• 
Abnormal kidney function AEs 
– 
MedDRA SMQ:  Acute renal failure, narrow 
– 
MedDRA SOC:  Renal and urinary disorders 
– 
MedDRA HLGT:  Renal and urinary tract investigations and urinalyses 
• 
Hematologic abnormalities  
– 
MedDRA SMQ:  Haematopoietic cytopenias, wide 
– 
Anemia 
MedDRA PTs:  anaemia and haemoglobin decreased 
• 
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) 
– 
MedDRA SMQ: Interstitial Lung Disease, narrow 
– 
Interstitial lung disease and pneumonitis 


--- Page 15 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
14/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
MedDRA PTs:  ILD and pneumonitis 
• 
QT interval prolongation 
– 
MedDRA SMQ:  Torsade de Pointes QT Prolongation, narrow 
• 
Edema 
– 
MedDRA PTs:  oedema peripheral, oedema, generalised oedema, eyelid 
oedema, periorbital oedema, face oedema, and localised oedema 
• 
Bradycardia 
– 
MedDRA PTs:  bradycardia and sinus bradycardia 
• 
Dysgeusia 
– 
MedDRA PTs:  dysgeusia and hypogeusia 
• 
Weight increased 
– 
MedDRA PT:  weight increased 
Rates of each selected adverse event group will be summarized including incidence of 
all grades events, Grade 3 or higher events, serious adverse events, and adverse 
events leading to treatment discontinuation or dose modification. 
Multiple occurrences of the same event will be counted once at the maximum severity. 
All deaths and causes of death will be summarized.  
Adverse events by sex, age (< 65 years vs. ≥ 65 years), and CNS metastases at 
baseline (yes vs. no) will be presented.  
4.6.3 
Laboratory Data 
Laboratory data will be classified according to NCI CTCAE v4.0 and will be summarized 
descriptively over time, including change from baseline. Highest NCI CTCAE grade after 
baseline will also be reported and shift tables from baseline to worst value during the 
study post-baseline will be presented.  
A Hy’s law analysis will be provided. The potential Hy’s law quadrant is defined as ALT 
or AST increases above 3-fold the ULN with concomitant total bilirubin increases above 
2-fold the ULN.  
4.6.4 
Vital Signs 
Vital signs will be summarized descriptively by treatment group over time, including 
change from baseline. Pulse rate and ECOG PS will also be presented as shift tables 
from baseline to the worst value and best value during post-baseline study period by 
treatment group. 
4.6.5 
Electrocardiograms 
The following parameters are captured on the eCRF and will be summarized by 
treatment group over time: heart rate; RR (time from one R wave to next R wave); PR, 
QRS and QT duration; and QT interval corrected using Fridericia’s formula.  


--- Page 16 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
15/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
4.7 
PATIENT-REPORTED OUTCOME ANALYSES 
Through the use of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer 
(EORTC) QLQ-C30 and EORTC QLQ-LC13, lung cancer symptoms, symptoms 
commonly associated with cancer treatments, and disease and treatment’s impact on 
patients’ functioning and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) will be collected at every 
study visit (week 4, week 8, and then after every 4 weeks) until disease progression and 
during post-progression treatment in case of isolated, asymptomatic CNS progression; 
at post-treatment visit (4 weeks after permanent treatment discontinuation); and at 
subsequent 8-weekly survival follow-up visits for 6 months. For patients who discontinue 
treatment for reasons other than disease progression and who progress within the first 6 
months of survival follow-up, patient-reported outcome (PRO) measures will be 
administered every 4 weeks until disease progression and then decreased to every 8 
weeks until 6 months post-treatment. For patients who discontinue treatment for reasons 
other than disease progression and have not yet progressed at 6 months post-treatment, 
PRO measures will be administered every 4 weeks until disease progression and will no 
longer be required thereafter.  
For the following PRO analyses, there may be multiple PRO assessments completed 
within the same calendar day; the earliest assessment will be used for analysis. In the 
cases that there are multiple PRO assessments completed within the same cycle (for 
post-randomization Visits 1 and 2), the last PRO assessment will be chosen for analysis.  
The EORTC QLQ-C30 and EORTC QLQ-LC13 will be scored according to the EORTC 
scoring manual 3rd edition (Fayers et al. 2001). The QLQ-C30 and LC13 are composed 
of both multi-item scales and single-item measures including functional scales, symptom 
scales, and a global health status/QoL scale.  
For multi-item subscales, if ≤ 50% of items within the multi-item subscale are missing at 
a given timepoint, the multi-item score will be calculated on the basis of the non-missing 
items. If > 50% of items are missing or if a single-item measure is missing, the subscale 
is missing.  
All of the scales and single-item measures will be linearly transformed so that each 
score will range from 0 to 100. A high score for a functional scale represents a 
high/healthy level of functioning, a high score for the global health status/QoL represents 
a high QoL; however, a high score for a symptom scale/item represents a high level of 
symptomatology/problems.  
4.7.1 
Time to Deterioration of Patient-Reported Lung Cancer Symptoms, 
Global Health Status, and Cognitive Function  
Time to deterioration (TTD) analyses will be performed on lung cancer symptom scores, 
global health status scores, and cognitive function scale scores in the ITT population and 
will include all data collected through disease progression and survival follow-up.  


--- Page 17 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
16/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
TTD is defined as the time from randomization until the first permanent clinically 
meaningful deterioration. Permanent clinically meaningful deterioration in lung cancer 
symptoms is defined as a ≥ 10-point increase from baseline in a symptom score that is 
not followed by a score below a ≥ 10 point increase from baseline at any subsequent 
time points (i.e. ≥ 10-point increase must be held for all subsequent assessments). 
Conversely, confirmed clinically meaningful deterioration in global health status or 
cognitive function is defined as a ≥ 10-point decrease from baseline in a score that is not 
followed by a score below a ≥ 10 point decrease from baseline at any subsequent time 
points (i.e. ≥ 10-point decrease must be held for all subsequent assessments). A ≥ 10-
point change in the score is perceived by patients as being clinically significant (Osoba 
et al. 1998).  
TTD will be documented for each of the following symptom, global health status, or 
cognitive function scale scores:  
• 
Cough (Question 31 on the EO`RTC Quality of Life Questionnaire Lung Cancer 
Module [QLQ-LC13]),  
• 
Dyspnea single item (Question 8 on the Core Quality of Life Questionnaire 
[QLQ-C30]),  
• 
Dyspnea multi-item subscale (Questions 33-35 on the QLQ-LC13),  
• 
Chest pain (Question 40 on the QLQ-LC13),  
• 
Arm/shoulder pain (Question 41 on the QLQ-LC13), and  
• 
Fatigue multi-item subscale (Questions 10, 12, and 18 on the QLQ-C30).  
• 
Global Health Status scale (Questions 29 and 30 on the QLQ-C30)  
• 
Cognitive Function Scale (Questions 20 and 25 on the QLQ-C30)  
 
In addition to those single symptom endpoints, a 3-symptom composite endpoint will 
also be assessed. In this instance, permanent symptom deterioration will be determined 
as a ≥ 10-point increase above baseline in any of the following lung cancer symptom 
scores, whichever occurs first (cough, chest pain, and dyspnea multi-item subscale). In 
the same manner as the single symptom endpoints, permanent symptom deterioration 
will need to be observed for the original symptom; a ≥ 10-point increase from baseline in 
a symptom score that is not followed by a score below a ≥ 10 point increase from 
baseline at any subsequent time points (i.e. ≥ 10-point increase in cough score must be 
held for all subsequent assessments of cough score).  
Patients without baseline or post-baseline EORTC symptom or scale scores will be 
censored at the date of randomization. Patients without deterioration at the time of 
analysis will be censored at the last time they were known to have not deteriorated.  
There will be no imputation for missing data for the TTD analysis.  
TTD of the pre-specified symptoms will be summarized using the Kaplan-Meier method. 
The estimated Kaplan-Meier plots will be provided for each score previously described 
(including the 3-symptom composite score). A stratified log-rank test will be the primary 
method to compare the time to first deterioration between the treatment groups. The 
median time and two-sided 95% CI for the median will also be provided. Estimates of the 
treatment effect will be expressed as HRs with use of a stratified Cox model, including 


--- Page 18 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
17/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
95% CIs for the ITT population.  
4.7.2 
Additional Patient-Reported Outcomes Analyses  
Only ITT patients with a baseline assessment and at least one post-baseline 
assessment (PRO-evaluable subset) will be included in the following analyses. Missing 
post-baseline items and subscales will not be imputed and will be summarized as 
observed.  
Completion rates will be summarized by listing the number and proportion of patients in 
the PRO-evaluable subset who completed the PRO assessments at each timepoint by 
treatment arm. Reasons for non-completion will be summarized if available in the CRF.  
All of the following analyses will be performed on all on-treatment timepoints as well as 
at the time of disease progression per RECIST v1.1 (PRO assessment completed within 
± 7 days of date of radiographic pharmacodynamic),  at the last dose of treatment, at 
the 4-week post-treatment discontinuation visit, and at the 8-weekly survival follow-up 
visits through 6 months.  
• 
EORTC scores and change from baseline will be descriptively analyzed using 
means, standard deviations, medians, and range, by treatment arm at baseline 
and each of the timepoints previously defined.  
• 
Graphs of the mean changes and standard errors over time from the baseline 
assessment of items and subscales will be provided for each treatment arm.  
• 
The number and proportion of patients who improved, worsened, or remained 
stable compared with baseline score will be summarized for all item-score and 
subscale scores of the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire and the QLQ-LC13 by 
treatment arm at baseline and each of the timepoints previously defined. A 
patient will be deemed improved at a timepoint if there is a ≥10 point decrease 
from baseline for any symptom or a ≥ 10 point increase from baseline for any 
function scales or global health status scale. A patient will be deemed worsened 
at that timepoint if they have a ≥ 10 point increase from baseline for any 
symptom or a ≥ 10 point decrease from baseline for any function scales or 
global health status scale. If patients do not fit the improved or worsened criteria, 
they will be defined as stable for that specific item/scale at that timepoint. 
• 
The mean change from baseline and the proportion of patients who improved, 
worsened or remained stable analyses will also be performed within the 
subgroup of patients with CNS metastases at baseline for the global health 
status scale and cognitive function scales only 
 


--- Page 19 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
18/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
5. 
REFERENCES 
Amit O, Mannino F, Stone AM, et al. Blinded independent central review of 
progression in cancer clinical trials: results from a meta-analysis. Eur J Cancer, 
2011:1772−8.  
Fayers PM, Aaronson N, Bjordal K, et al. The EORTC QLQ-C30 Scoring Manual 
(3rd Edition). Brussels: Published by: EORTC 2001.  
Osoba D, Rodriguez G, Myles J, et al. Interpreting the significance of changes in 
health-related quality-of-life scores. J Clin Oncol 1998;16(1):139−44.  
O’Neill RT. Secondary endpoints cannot be validly analyzed if the primary 
endpoint does not demonstrate clear statistical significance. Control Clin Trials 
1997 Dec;18(6):550−6.  
Solomon BJ, Mok T, Kim DW, et al. First-line crizotinib versus chemotherapy in 
ALK-positive lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2014;371(23):2167−77. No interim 
analysis for efficacy or futility is planned. 
 


--- Page 20 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
19/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
Appendix 1 Protocol Synopsis 
PROTOCOL SYNOPSIS 
TITLE: 
RANDOMIZED, MULTICENTER, PHASE III, OPEN-LABEL STUDY 
OF ALECTINIB VERSUS CRIZOTINIB IN TREATMENT-NAIVE 
ANAPLASTIC LYMPHOMA KINASE−POSITIVE ADVANCED 
NON−SMALL CELL LUNG CANCER 
PROTOCOL NUMBER: 
YO29449 
VERSION NUMBER: 
3 
TEST PRODUCT: 
Alectinib (RO5424802) 
PHASE: 
Phase III 
INDICATION: 
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase−positive (ALK-positive) non−small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) 
SPONSOR: 
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
 
Objectives  
Efficacy Objectives  
The primary efficacy objective for this study is to evaluate and compare the efficacy of alectinib 
compared with crizotinib in Asian patients with treatment-naive anaplastic lymphoma kinase 
(ALK)-positive advanced non−small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), as measured by investigator-
assessed progression-free survival (PFS). This objective is to reliably determine whether the 
benefit (in terms of PFS) of administrating alectinib in this study is consistent with the benefit 
observed in the global Study ALEX (BO28984).  
The secondary efficacy objectives for this study are as follows:  
• 
To evaluate and compare the objective response rate (ORR) and duration of response 
(DOR)  
• 
To evaluate and compare the time to disease progression in the CNS on the basis of 
review of patient radiographs by an Independent Review Committee (IRC) with the use of 
Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) and Response 
Assessment in Neuro Oncology (RANO) criteria, as well as:  
 
To evaluate the CNS objective response rate (C-ORR) in patients with CNS 
metastases who have measurable disease in the CNS at baseline  
 
To assess the CNS duration of response (C-DOR) in patients who have a CNS 
objective response  
 
To assess CNS progression rates (C-PR) at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months on the basis of 
cumulative incidence  
• 
To evaluate and compare the PFS assessment by an independent review committee (IRC) 
by treatment arm  
• 
To evaluate and compare the overall survival (OS) by treatment arm  


--- Page 21 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
20/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
Safety Objective  
The safety objective for this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of alectinib compared 
with crizotinib.  
Pharmacokinetic Objective  
The pharmacokinetic (PK) objective for this study is to characterize the pharmacokinetics of 
alectinib (and metabolite[s], if appropriate). 
Patient-Reported Outcome Objectives 
The patient-reported outcome (PRO) objectives for this study are as follows: 
• 
To evaluate and compare time to deterioration (TTD) with patient-reported lung cancer 
symptoms of cough, dyspnea (single item and multi-item subscales), chest pain, 
arm/shoulder pain, and fatigue as measured by the European Organization for the 
Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality-of-Life Questionnaire−Core (QLQ-
C30), the supplemental EORTC Quality-of-Life Questionnaire−Lung Cancer module (QLQ-
LC13), and a composite of the following three symptoms cough, dyspnea, chest pain. 
• 
To evaluate and compare PROs regarding health-related quality of life (HRQOL), daily 
functioning, and side effects of treatment as measured by the EORTC QLQ-C30 and 
EORTC QLQ-LC13. 
 
Exploratory Objectives 
The exploratory objectives for this study are as follows: 
• 
To investigate molecular mechanisms of resistance to ALK inhibitors. 
• 
To investigate detection of mutations in ALK and other genes, refer to Appendix 12 for 
detailed information. 
 
Study Design 
Description of Study 
This is a randomized, active controlled, multicenter Phase III open-label study in Asian 
patients with treatment-naive ALK-positive advanced NSCLC. All patients are required to 
provide a pretreatment tumor sample that will be used to confirm the presence of ALK 
rearrangement (by Ventana immunohistochemistry [IHC] test performed at a central 
laboratory). Patients will be randomized 2:1 into one of the two treatment arms to receive 
either alectinib or crizotinib, respectively. 
This study will be conducted in approximately three other Asian countries in addition to 
China. The primary endpoint of the study is investigator-assessed PFS. 
Central randomization will be performed via an interactive voice/Web response system (IxRS) 
with stratification by Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG PS) 
(0/1 vs. 2) and CNS metastases at baseline (yes vs. no). An IxRS information manual will be 
provided to each study site. 
The experimental arm will receive alectinib administered orally at 600 mg twice a day (BID) 
with food.  The control arm will receive crizotinib administered orally at 250 mg BID, taken 
with or without food.  The first dose of the study drug should be administered as soon as 
possible after randomization, preferably within 24 hours, and no later than 48 hours after 
randomization. 
Patients will be treated until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of 
consent, or death. Patients should discontinue the study medication once progression of 
disease has been determined based on the use of RECIST v1.1 and subsequent treatments 
will be decided at the discretion of the investigator according to local practice. Information 
regarding the nature and the duration of subsequent therapies will be collected. 


--- Page 22 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
21/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
In the case of isolated asymptomatic disease progression in the CNS (e.g., new CNS 
oligometastases) localized treatment (e.g., stereotactic radiotherapy or surgery) may be 
provided followed by the continuation of patient’s study treatment (either alectinib or 
crizotinib) until systemic disease progression or symptomatic disease progression in the 
CNS. The decision to continue the study treatment beyond the isolated, asymptomatic 
disease progression in the CNS is at the investigator’s discretion for patients who may 
continue to benefit from respective treatment. 
Patients who discontinue study drug treatment before disease progression (e.g., because of 
unacceptable toxicity) will continue to be followed to collect information regarding disease 
progression and OS information regardless of whether the patient subsequently received any 
non-study anti-cancer therapy. Data regarding subsequent anti-cancer therapy will be 
collected for the analysis of OS. 
Approximately 183 patients (122 in the alectinib treatment arm and 61 in the crizotinib 
treatment arm) will be enrolled into the study over a planned recruitment period of 13 months. 
Patients who are inappropriately randomized into the study will not be replaced. With the 
current assumption that hazard ratio is 0. 65, the primary analysis that will evaluate the 
primary endpoint of investigator-assessed PFS is expected to occur approximately 23 
months after the first patient has been enrolled when approximately 97 PFS events have 
occurred. Data collection will continue for each patient until death or study closure, 
whichever occurs first. 
 
Number of Patients 
Approximately 183 patients will be randomly assigned in a 2:1 allocation ratio to the two 
treatment arms (122 in the alectinib treatment arm and 61 in the crizotinib treatment arm) via 
a block stratified randomization procedure and over a planned recruitment period of 1 3 
months. 
Randomization will guard against systematic selection bias and should ensure the 
comparability of treatment groups. To assist the balance of important prognostic factors, 
randomization will be stratified by ECOG PS (0/1 vs. 2) and CNS metastases at baseline 
(yes vs. no). 
 
Target Population 
Inclusion Criteria 
Patients must meet the following criteria for study entry: 
•   Histologically or cytologically confirmed diagnosis of advanced or recurrent (Stage IIIB not 
amenable for multimodality treatment) or metastatic (Stage IV) NSCLC that is ALK-positive 
as assessed by the Ventana IHC test. Sufficient tumor tissue available to perform ALK IHC is 
required. Ventana IHC testing will be performed at the designated central laboratory. 
•   Age ≥ 18 years 
•   Life expectancy ≥ 12 weeks 
•   ECOG PS of 0−2 
•   No history of receiving systemic treatment for advanced, recurrent (Stage IIIB not 
amenable for multimodality treatment) or metastatic (Stage IV) NSCLC 
•   Adequate hematologic function:  
 
Platelet count ≥ 100 × 109/L  
 
ANC ≥ 1500 cells/µL  
 
Hemoglobin ≥ 9.0 g/dL 
•   Adequate renal function: 


--- Page 23 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
22/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
 
An estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) calculated using the Modification of Diet 
in Renal Disease (MDRD) formula of ≥ 45 mL/min/1.73 m2 
• 
Patients must have recovered from effects of any major surgery or significant traumatic 
injury at least 28 days before receiving the first dose of study treatment. 
• 
Measurable disease (by RECIST v1.1) before administration of study treatment. 
• 
Previous brain or leptomeningeal metastases are allowed if the patient is asymptomatic 
(e.g., diagnosed incidentally at study baseline). Asymptomatic CNS lesions may be treated 
at the discretion of the investigator as per local clinical practice. If patient has neurological 
symptoms or signs because of CNS metastasis, the patient must complete whole-brain 
radiation or gamma knife irradiation treatment. In all cases, radiation treatment must be 
completed ≥ 14 days before enrollment and disease must be clinically stable. 
• 
For all females of childbearing potential, a negative serum pregnancy test result must be 
obtained within 3 days before starting study treatment. 
• 
For women who are not postmenopausal (≥ 12 months of non-therapy-induced 
amenorrhea) or surgically sterile (absence of ovaries and/or uterus), agreement to remain 
abstinent or use single or combined contraceptive methods that result in a failure rate of < 
1% per year during the treatment period and for at least 3 months after the last dose of 
study drug. Abstinence is acceptable only if it is in line with the preferred and usual lifestyle 
of the patient. Periodic abstinence (e.g., calendar, ovulation, symptothermal, or 
postovulation methods) and withdrawal are not acceptable methods of contraception. 
Examples of contraceptive methods with a failure rate of < 1% per year include tubal 
ligation, male sterilization, hormonal implants, established, proper use of combined oral or 
injected hormonal contraceptives, and certain intrauterine devices. Alternatively, two 
methods (e.g., two barrier methods such as a condom and a cervical cap) may be 
combined to achieve a failure rate < 1% per year. Barrier methods must always be 
supplemented with the use of a spermicide. 
• 
For men, agreement to remain abstinent or use a condom plus an additional contraceptive 
method that together result in a failure rate of < 1% per year during the treatment period 
and for at least 3 months after the last dose of study drug. Abstinence is acceptable only if 
it is in line with the preferred and usual lifestyle of the patient. Periodic abstinence (e.g., 
calendar, ovulation, symptothermal, or postovulation methods) and withdrawal are not 
acceptable methods of contraception. 
• 
Able and willing to provide written informed consent before performing any study-related 
procedures and to comply with the study protocol. 
 
Exclusion Criteria 
Patients who meet any of the following criteria will be excluded from study entry: 
• 
A malignancy within the previous 3 years (other than curatively treated basal cell 
carcinoma of the skin, early gastrointestinal [GI] cancer by endoscopic resection, in situ 
carcinoma of the cervix, or any cured cancer that is considered to have no impact in PFS 
or OS for the current NSCLC). 
• 
Any GI disorder that may affect absorption of oral medications, such as malabsorption 
syndrome or status post-major bowel resection. 
• 
Liver disease characterized by: 
 
ALT or AST > 3 × the upper limit of normal (ULN; ≥ 5 × ULN for patients with 
concurrent liver metastases) confirmed on two consecutive measurements 
 
OR 


--- Page 24 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
23/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
 
Impaired excretory function (e.g., hyperbilirubinemia), synthetic function, or other 
conditions of decompensated liver disease such as coagulopathy, hepatic 
encephalopathy, hypoalbuminemia, ascites, and bleeding from esophageal varices 
 
OR 
 
Acute viral or active autoimmune, alcoholic, or other types of hepatitis 
• 
National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 
Grade 3 or higher toxicities because of any previous therapy (e.g., radiotherapy) (excluding 
alopecia), which have not shown improvement and are strictly considered to interfere with 
current study medication. 
• 
History of organ transplant 
• 
Co-administration of anti-cancer therapies other than those administered in this study 
• 
Baseline QTc > 470 ms or symptomatic bradycardia 
• 
Administration of strong/potent cytochrome P4503A inhibitors or inducers within 14 days 
prior to the receiving the first dose of study treatment and during treatment with alectinib or 
crizotinib 
• 
Administration of agents with potential QT-prolonging effects within 14 days prior to 
receiving the first dose of study drug. 
• 
History of hypersensitivity to any of the additives in the alectinib drug formulation 
• 
History of hypersensitivity to any of the additives in the crizotinib drug formulation  
• 
Pregnant or lactating women  
• 
Known HIV positivity or AIDS-related illness  
• 
Any clinically significant concomitant disease or condition that could interfere with, or for 
which the treatment might interfere with, the conduct of the study or the absorption of oral 
medications or that would, in the opinion of the Principal Investigator, pose an 
unacceptable risk to the patient in this study  
• 
Any psychological, familial, sociological, or geographical condition that potentially hampers 
compliance with the study protocol requirements or follow-up procedures; those conditions 
should be discussed with the patient before study entry  
Length of Study  
The time from first patient screened to end of study, defined below, will be approximately 43 
months.  
End of Study  
This is an event-driven study. With the current assumption that the HR is 0.65 and the 
recruitment period is 13 months, the required 97 PFS events for primary efficacy analysis is 
expected to occur 23 months after the first patient has been enrolled. If the number of PFS 
events is not enough for the estimation of median PFS, an updated PFS analysis will be 
done when approximately 55% of patients have had PFS events. A survival follow-up 
analysis will be performed when approximately 55% of patients have died, which is 
estimated to occur 41 months after the first patient has been enrolled.  
Outcome Measures  
Efficacy Outcome Measures  
The efficacy outcome measures for this study are as follows:  
• 
PFS, defined as the time from randomization to the first documentation of disease 
progression, as determined by the investigators (primary endpoint) or IRC (secondary 
endpoint) with the use of RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. 
Patients without an event will be censored at the last tumor assessment either during 


--- Page 25 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
24/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
follow-up or during study treatment. Patients without any assessments performed after 
baseline will be censored at the date of randomization.  
• 
ORR, defined as the percentage of patients who attain complete response (CR) or partial 
response (PR) as assessed by the investigator with the use of RECIST v1.1. Patients 
without any assessments will be regarded as non-responders.  
• 
Time to progression of disease in the CNS, defined as the time from randomization to the 
first occurrence of disease progression in the CNS as determined by an IRC with the use of 
RECIST v1.1 and RANO (separate assessments and analyses), as well as C-ORR in 
patients with CNS metastases who have measurable disease in the CNS at baseline, C-
DOR in patients who have a CNS Objective Response, and C-PR at 6, 12, 18, and 24 
months.  
• 
DOR, defined as the time from the initial documentation of response (CR or PR with the 
use of RECIST v1.1) to first documentation of disease progression with the use of RECIST 
v1.1 or death (whichever occurs first). This will be calculated only for patients who have a 
best overall response of CR or PR. Patients who do have disease progression or die after 
they have had a response will be censored at the date of their last tumor measurement.  
• 
OS, defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause. Patients without an 
event will be censored at the last date known to be alive. Patients without any follow-up 
information will be censored at the date of randomization.  
Safety Outcome Measures  
The safety outcome measures for this study are as follows:  
• 
Serious and non-serious adverse events  
• 
Safety laboratory test results 
• 
Vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate), ECG 
• 
Physical examination findings 
Pharmacokinetic Outcome Measures 
 
The PK outcome measures for this study are as follows: 
• 
Sparse blood sampling will be performed in all patients receiving alectinib treatment to 
characterize the pharmacokinetics of alectinib (and metabolite[s], if appropriate). 
• 
Frequent blood sampling will be performed in the first 20 consenting Chinese patients 
enrolled to receive alectinib treatment. 
• 
PK parameters will be determined as appropriate and where data allow. 
• 
Non-compartmental analysis for alectinib (and metabolite[s], if appropriate) will be 
conducted in patients undergoing frequent blood sampling, as appropriate and where data 
allow. 
 
The sparse and frequent pharmacokinetics of alectinib (and metabolite[s], if 
appropriate) will be described, and the between-patient variability will be estimated 
with the use of a population PK approach. The potential influence of covariates that 
contribute significantly to the between-patient differences in PK parameters of alectinib 
will also be explored and quantified. If necessary, data may be pooled with data from 
other studies. 
Patient-Reported Outcome Questionnaires 
The PRO questionnaires for this study are as follows and will be administered to patients 
every 4 weeks until disease progression and during disease progression while receiving 
study drug treatment in the case of isolated, asymptomatic disease progression in the CNS 
at the Post-Treatment Visit (4 weeks after treatment discontinuation), and every follow-up 
visit (every 8 weeks) after the Post-Treatment Visit for 6 months: 


--- Page 26 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
25/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
• 
EORTC QLQ-C30 and the EORTC QLQ-LC13 will be used to determine the impact of 
alectinib compared with crizotinib as measured by TTD with patient-reported lung cancer 
symptoms (e.g., cough, dyspnea [single item and multi-item scales], pain in chest, pain in 
arm/shoulder, fatigue). 
• 
The EORTC QLQ-C30 and EORTC QLQ-LC13 will be used to measure PROs of HRQOL, 
patient functioning, and side effects of therapy compared between patients treated with 
alectinib and those treated with crizotinib. 
• 
For patients who discontinue treatment for reasons other than disease progression and 
who progress within the first 6 months of survival follow-up, PRO questionnaires will be 
administered every 4 weeks until disease progression. Upon disease progression, PRO 
questionnaires will be provided every 8 weeks until 6 months post-treatment. 
• 
For patients who discontinue treatment for reasons other than disease progression and 
who have not yet progressed at 6 months post-treatment, PRO questionnaires will be 
administered every 4 weeks until disease progression and will no longer be required 
thereafter. 
Exploratory Outcome Measures 
The exploratory outcome measures for this study are as follows: 
• 
Baseline and post-progression tumor mutation status to study molecular mechanisms of 
resistance to ALK inhibitors 
• 
ALK and other genes involved in cancer mutation and rearrangement status in plasma-
circulating tumor nucleic acids to monitor efficacy, resistance, and disease progression 
Investigational Medicinal Products  
Test Product  
Alectinib comes in a hard capsule dosage form containing the following active ingredient:  
Chemical name: 9-Ethyl-6, 6-dimethyl-8-[4-(morpholin-4-yl) piperidin-1-yl]-11-oxo-6, 11-
dihydro-5H-benzo[b]carbazole-3-carbonitrile hydrochloride  
Each capsule contains 150 mg of alectinib (as free base) along with lactose monohydrate, 
carmellose calcium, hydroxypropyl cellulose, SLS, and magnesium stearate.  
Alectinib capsules should be stored in accordance with the storage instructions on the label. 
Alectinib capsules should be administered orally BID with food in the morning and evening.  
Comparator  
Crizotinib comes in a hard capsule dosage form. Each capsule contains 250 mg or 200 mg 
crizotinib. Crizotinib hard capsules should be stored in accordance with the storage 
instructions on the label. Crizotinib capsules should be administered orally BID.  
For further details, see the local prescribing information for crizotinib (XALKORI
, U.S. 

Package Insert).  
Non-Investigational Medicinal Product  
Concomitant therapy includes any medication (e.g., prescription drugs, over-the-counter 
drugs, herbal or homeopathic remedies, nutritional supplements) used by a patient from 28 
days prior to screening to the Study Completion and Study Treatment Discontinuation Visit. 
All concomitant medications should be reported to the investigator and recorded on the 
Concomitant Medications electronic case report form (eCRF).  
All therapy and medication administered to manage adverse events should be recorded on 
the Concomitant Medications eCRF.  
Permitted medications and treatments are listed below:  
• 
Anticoagulants and anti-thrombotic agents (i.e., warfarin-derived anticoagulants, 
unfractionated heparin or low-molecular heparins, aspirin [≤ 325 mg/day], and clopidogrel).  


--- Page 27 ---
Alectinib — F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
26/Statistical Analysis Plan YO29449 
• 
Acetaminophen up to 2 g/day  
• 
Gastric pH− elevating medications (such as proton pump inhibitors, H2 blockers, or 
antacids)  
• 
Local therapy (e.g., stereotactic radiotherapy or surgery) may be given to patients with 
isolated asymptomatic CNS progression (e.g., new CNS oligometastases).  
Statistical Methods  
Primary Analysis  
PFS is defined as the time from date of randomization to the date of first documented 
disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. The primary endpoint of PFS will be 
determined based on investigator assessment of progression with the use of RECIST v1.1. 
Patients who have not experienced disease progression or death at the time of analysis will 
be censored at the last tumor assessment date either during study treatment or during 
follow-up. Patients without tumor assessments after baseline will be censored at the date of 
randomization.  
Patients who discontinue treatment before disease progression (e.g., because of toxicity) will 
continue in the study and will be followed until disease progression and for OS regardless of 
whether they subsequently receive anti-cancer therapy.  
The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the median PFS for each treatment arm 
with 95% confidence limits, and a Kaplan-Meier curve will be constructed to provide a visual 
description of the difference between the treatment arms. A stratified Cox proportional 
regression model will be used including treatment in order to provide an estimate of the 
treatment effect expressed as a hazard ratio (HR) (alectinib vs. crizotinib), as well as a 95% 
CI. The stratification factors are the randomization stratification factors: ECOG PS (0/1 vs. 2) 
and CNS metastases at baseline (yes vs. no), as recorded on the eCRF. Point estimate of 
the adjusted HR will be compared with the consistency threshold (observed HR in the ALEX 
trial). 
The treatment comparison of PFS will also be assessed and tested based on a stratified log-
rank test to demonstrate the strength of consistent trend. However, this hypothesis testing is 
limited because statistically negative outcomes do not necessarily rule out clinically 
significant treatment effects.  
Determination of Sample Size  
The primary endpoint of investigator-assessed PFS was used to determine the sample size 
of the study. The primary objective of the study is to reliably determine whether the benefit 
(in terms of PFS) of administrating alectinib in this study is consistent with the benefit 
observed in the global Study ALEX. Consistency is defined as maintaining ≥ 50% of risk 
reduction from Study ALEX. That is, assumed the PFS HR for the ALEX trial is 0.65 (i.e., 35% 
risk reduction), if the point estimate of HR from Study YO29449 is less than 0.83, then the 
study primary objective to demonstrate consistency is met.  
Based on the assumption of PFS HR = 0.65, a total of 97 PFS events are required to 
achieve approximately 87% probability to show consistency. In this study, 183 patients will 
be enrolled in a 2:1 randomization allocation. Based on the assumption that median PFS is 
10.9 months for the crizotinib arm and 16.8 months for the alectinib arm (HR = 0.65) and 
patients are to be enrolled over 13months; the final PFS analysis is expected to occur 
approximately 23 months after the first patient is enrolled.  
Interim Analysis  
No interim analysis for efficacy or futility is planned. 
 
