
--- Page 1 ---
 
49539091dft 
Considerations for the Design 
and Conduct of Externally 
Controlled Trials for Drug and 
Biological Products  
Guidance for Industry 
 
 
 
 
 
DRAFT GUIDANCE 
 
 
This guidance document is being distributed for comment purposes only. 
 
Comments and suggestions regarding this draft document should be submitted within 90 days of 
publication in the Federal Register of the notice announcing the availability of the draft 
guidance.  Submit electronic comments to https://www.regulations.gov.  Submit written 
comments to the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 
Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852.  All comments should be identified with the 
docket number listed in the notice of availability that publishes in the Federal Register. 
 
For questions regarding this draft document, contact (CDER) Dianne Paraoan, 301-796-2500, or 
(CBER) Office of Communication, Outreach and Development, 800-835-4709 or 240-402-8010.  
 
 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 
Food and Drug Administration 
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) 
Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER)  
Oncology Center of Excellence (OCE) 
 
February 2023 
Real-World Data/Real-World Evidence (RWD/RWE) 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
Considerations for the Design 
and Conduct of Externally 
Controlled Trials for Drug and 
Biological Products  
Guidance for Industry 
 
 
Additional copies are available from: 
 
Office of Communications, Division of Drug Information  
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research 
Food and Drug Administration 
10001 New Hampshire Ave., Hillandale Bldg., 4th Floor  
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002  
Phone: 855-543-3784 or 301-796-3400; Fax: 301-431-6353 
Email: druginfo@fda.hhs.gov  
https://www.fda.gov/drugs/guidance-compliance-regulatory-information/guidances-drugs  
 
and/or 
 
Office of Communication, Outreach and Development  
Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research 
 Food and Drug Administration 
10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 71, Room 3128 
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002 
Phone: 800-835-4709 or 240-402-8010 
Email: ocod@fda.hhs.gov 
https://www.fda.gov/vaccines-blood-biologics/guidance-compliance-regulatory-information-biologics/biologics-guidances  
 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 
Food and Drug Administration 
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) 
Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER)  
Oncology Center of Excellence (OCE) 
 
 
February 2023 
Real-World Data/Real-World Evidence (RWD/RWE) 
 


--- Page 3 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION............................................................................................................. 1 
II. 
BACKGROUND ............................................................................................................... 2 
III. 
DESIGN AND ANALYSIS OF EXTERNALLY CONTROLLED TRIALS .............. 4 
A. 
Design Considerations ................................................................................................................... 4 
1. Overview .......................................................................................................................................... 4 
2. Characteristics of Study Populations ............................................................................................... 6 
3. Attributes of Treatment .................................................................................................................... 6 
4. Designation of Index Date (Time Zero) ........................................................................................... 7 
5. Assessment of Outcomes .................................................................................................................. 8 
B. 
Data Considerations for the External Control Arm ................................................................. 10 
1. Data from Clinical Trials............................................................................................................... 10 
2. Data from RWD Sources ................................................................................................................ 11 
3. Considerations for Assessing Comparability of Data Across Trial Arms ..................................... 11 
C. 
Analysis Considerations .............................................................................................................. 13 
1. General Considerations ................................................................................................................. 13 
2. Missing Data .................................................................................................................................. 14 
3. Misclassification of Available Data ............................................................................................... 15 
4. Additional Analyses ....................................................................................................................... 16 
IV. 
CONSIDERATIONS TO SUPPORT REGULATORY REVIEW ............................ 16 
A. 
Communication with FDA .......................................................................................................... 16 
B. 
Access to Data and Documents ................................................................................................... 16 
GLOSSARY................................................................................................................................. 17 


--- Page 4 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
1 
Considerations for the Design and Conduct of Externally Controlled 
1 
Trials for Drug and Biological Products1 
2 
 
3 
 
4 
This draft guidance, when finalized, will represent the current thinking of the Food and Drug 
5 
Administration (FDA or Agency) on this topic.  It does not establish any rights for any person 
6 
and is not binding on FDA or the public.  You can use an alternative approach if it satisfies the 
7 
requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations.  To discuss an alternative approach, 
8 
contact the FDA staff responsible for this guidance as listed on the title page.  
9 
 
10 
 
11 
 
12 
 
13 
I. 
INTRODUCTION  
14 
 
15 
This guidance provides recommendations to sponsors and investigators considering the use of 
16 
externally controlled clinical trials2 to provide evidence of the safety and effectiveness of a drug 
17 
product.3  In an externally controlled trial, outcomes in participants receiving the test treatment 
18 
according to a protocol are compared to outcomes in a group of people external to the trial who 
19 
had not received the same treatment.  The external control arm can be a group of people, treated 
20 
or untreated, from an earlier time (historical control), or it can be a group of people, treated or 
21 
untreated, during the same time period (concurrent control) but in another setting.4,5  
22 
 
23 
The guidance addresses considerations for the design and analysis of externally controlled trials 
24 
to study the effectiveness and safety of drugs, including discussion of threats to the validity of 
25 
 
1 This guidance has been prepared by the Office of Medical Policy in the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research 
in cooperation with the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research and the Oncology Center of Excellence at the 
Food and Drug Administration.  
 
2 In this guidance, the terms clinical trials, clinical studies, and clinical investigations are interchangeable.  
 
3 In this guidance, the term drug product includes both human drugs and biological products. 
 
4 FDA regulations under 21 CFR 314.126 outline the characteristics of adequate and well-controlled studies, and 
recognize various controls, including a historical control, which FDA considers to be a subset of a broader category 
of potential external controls.  FDA has accepted various types of external controls, when appropriate, for a specific 
drug development program.  See also the International Council for Harmonisation (ICH) guidance for industry E10 
Choice of Control Group and Related Issues in Clinical Trials (May 2001).  We update guidances periodically.  For 
the most recent version of a guidance, check the FDA guidance web page at https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-
information/search-fda-guidance-documents.  
 
5 Although multiple arms may be part of the overall trial design, this guidance discusses externally controlled trials 
involving analysis of a single treatment arm and a single control arm. 
 


--- Page 5 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
2 
trial results from potential bias.6  Although various sources of data can serve as the control arm 
26 
in an externally controlled trial, this guidance focuses on the use of patient-level data from other 
27 
clinical trials or from real-world data (RWD) sources, such as registries as well as electronic 
28 
health records (EHRs) and medical claims.7  The guidance also describes considerations related 
29 
to communicating with FDA and ensuring access by FDA to data from an externally controlled 
30 
trial. 
31 
 
32 
This guidance does not address other types of external controls, such as using summary-level 
33 
estimates instead of patient-level data.  This guidance does not discuss details of the design and 
34 
analysis of a natural history study8 nor the reliability and relevance of various sources of RWD9 
35 
that could be used in an externally controlled trial.  Finally, this guidance also does not discuss 
36 
considerations for using external control data to supplement a control arm in a traditional 
37 
randomized controlled clinical trial. 
38 
 
39 
In general, FDA’s guidance documents do not establish legally enforceable responsibilities.  
40 
Instead, guidances describe the Agency’s current thinking on a topic and should be viewed only 
41 
as recommendations, unless specific regulatory or statutory requirements are cited.  The use of 
42 
the word should in Agency guidances means that something is suggested or recommended, but 
43 
not required. 
44 
 
45 
 
46 
II. 
BACKGROUND 
47 
 
48 
The purpose of conducting clinical investigations of a drug product is to distinguish the effect of 
49 
a drug on the target condition from other influences, such as spontaneous change in the course of 
50 
the disease, placebo effect, or biased observation.10  When properly conducted, a clinical trial—
51 
with random assignment of participants either to a treatment arm or to a placebo (or other 
52 
 
6 Words and phrases in bold italics are defined in the Glossary. 
 
7 Given that an external control arm can involve the use of RWD, FDA is issuing this guidance to satisfy, in part, the 
requirements of the 21st Century Cures Act to issue guidance on the use of real-world evidence (RWE) in 
regulatory decision-making, specifically to evaluate the potential use of RWE to help support the approval of a new 
indication for a drug already approved under section 505(c) of the FD&C Act or to help support or satisfy 
postapproval study requirements. 
 
8 See the draft guidance for industry Rare Diseases:  Natural History Studies for Drug Development (March 2019).  
When final, this guidance will represent FDA’s current thinking on this topic.  Natural history studies can be used 
for purposes such as identifying a study population, developing clinical outcome assessments or biomarkers, and 
serving as a comparator group in an externally controlled trial.  
 
9 See the following draft guidances for industry:  Real-World Data:  Assessing Electronic Health Records and 
Medical Claims Data to Support Regulatory Decision-Making for Drug and Biological Products (September 2021); 
Real-World Data: Assessing Registries to Support Regulatory Decision-Making for Drug and Biological Products 
(November 2021); and Data Standards for Drug and Biological Product Submissions Containing Real-World Data 
(October 2021).  When final, these guidances will represent FDA’s current thinking on these topics. 
 
10 See 21 CFR 314.126(a).  
 


--- Page 6 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
3 
control) arm—optimally promotes the similarity of compared groups regarding such influences, 
53 
such that a conclusion can be made as to whether differences in outcomes observed between 
54 
groups can be attributed to the treatment of interest.  Nevertheless, for decades FDA has 
55 
recognized the potential value of other types of controls, including historical controls as a type of 
56 
external control.11  Clinical trials using these other types of controls can, when appropriate, serve 
57 
as the adequate and well-controlled clinical investigations generally required to provide 
58 
substantial evidence of effectiveness under section 505(d) of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
59 
Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act).12 
60 
 
61 
Given that externally controlled trials do not involve randomization of the study population to 
62 
the treatments being compared, the treatment and control arm populations should be as similar as 
63 
possible regarding known factors that can affect the outcome being measured.  These factors, 
64 
discussed in more detail in section III, include important baseline characteristics (e.g., 
65 
demographic factors, comorbidities), disease attributes (e.g., severity, symptoms, duration of 
66 
illness), start of follow-up for the treatment of interest, concomitant therapies, and the clinical 
67 
observations collected.  Importantly, before choosing to conduct a clinical trial using an external 
68 
control arm as a comparator, sponsors and investigators should consider the likelihood that such 
69 
a trial design would be able to distinguish the effect of a drug from other factors that impact the 
70 
outcome of interest and meet regulatory requirements.13   
71 
 
72 
The suitability of an externally controlled trial design warrants a case-by-case assessment, 
73 
informed by issues including heterogeneity of the disease (e.g., clinical presentation, severity, 
74 
prognosis), preliminary evidence regarding the drug product under investigation, the approach to 
75 
ascertaining the outcome of interest, and whether the goal of the trial is to show superiority or 
76 
non-inferiority.14  Of note, if the natural history of a disease is well-defined and the disease is 
77 
known not to improve in the absence of an intervention or with available therapies, historical 
78 
information can potentially serve as the control group.  For example, objective response rate is 
79 
often used as a single-arm trial endpoint in oncology given the established understanding that 
80 
tumor shrinkage rarely occurs without an intervention.15,16   
81 
 
82 
In many situations, however, the likelihood of credibly demonstrating the effectiveness of a drug 
83 
of interest with an external control is low, and sponsors should choose a more suitable design, 
84 
 
11 See 21 CFR 314.126(b)(2)(v).  
 
12 See section 505(d) of the FD&C Act (21 U.S.C. 355(d)).  
 
13 See 21 CFR 314.126. 
 
14 A non-inferiority approach is not recommended using an externally controlled trial design.  See the guidance for 
industry Non-Inferiority Clinical Trials to Establish Effectiveness (November 2016). 
 
15 See the ICH guidance for industry E10 Choice of Control Group and Related Issues in Clinical Trials (May 
2001).  
 
16 See the guidance for industry Clinical Trial Endpoints for the Approval of Cancer Drugs and Biologics 
(December 2018). 
 


--- Page 7 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
4 
regardless of the prevalence of disease.  For example, when considering whether to use an 
85 
externally controlled trial design, sponsors should decide whether it is possible to generate 
86 
evidence capable of distinguishing the effect of the drug from outcomes attributable to the 
87 
disease’s natural history,17 prognostic differences in the study populations, knowledge of 
88 
treatment assignment (lack of blinding), or other factors such as differences in concomitant 
89 
therapies.  
90 
 
91 
The remainder of this guidance is intended to assist sponsors in identifying and addressing 
92 
commonly encountered challenges when considering the conduct of an externally controlled 
93 
trial.  
94 
 
95 
 
96 
III. 
DESIGN AND ANALYSIS OF EXTERNALLY CONTROLLED TRIALS  
97 
 
98 
A. 
Design Considerations 
99 
 
100 
1. 
Overview 
101 
 
102 
Reducing the potential for bias in externally controlled trials is best addressed in the design 
103 
phase, in that well-chosen design elements increase confidence in the interpretability of study 
104 
results when appropriate analytic methods are applied to estimate treatment effects.  Sponsors 
105 
should finalize a study protocol before initiating the externally controlled trial, including 
106 
selection of the external control arm and analytic approach, rather than selecting an external 
107 
control arm after the completion of a single-arm trial.  Specific design elements to prespecify in 
108 
the protocol (i.e., before conducting an externally controlled trial) include suitable study data 
109 
sources,18 baseline eligibility (inclusion and exclusion) criteria,19 appropriate exposure 
110 
definitions and windows, well-defined and clinically meaningful endpoints, cogent analytic 
111 
plans, and approaches to minimize missing data and sources of bias. 
112 
 
17 Scenarios that would not be suitable for externally controlled trials include when the natural history of the disease 
of interest is not understood sufficiently or when the disease course is considered well-understood but is variable. 
 
18 FDA recognizes that access to and evaluation of relevant data sources or databases are important steps in 
designing a control arm for externally controlled trials and in evaluating the trial’s feasibility.  Sponsors should 
document and describe in the trial protocol all data sources accessed when designing the control arm of the trial and 
the results of any feasibility evaluations or exploratory analyses.  Sponsors should provide a justification for 
selecting or excluding relevant data sources and demonstrate that the choice of a final analytic dataset for the control 
arm aligns with the research question of interest and was not chosen to favor particular study results.  FDA 
recommends that sponsors generate audit trails in their datasets that can track access to and analyses performed on 
relevant data sources.  See the draft guidance for industry Considerations for the Use of Real-World Data and Real-
World Evidence to Support Regulatory Decision-Making for Drug and Biological Products (December 2021).  
When final, this guidance will represent the FDA’s current thinking on this topic.  
 
19 In this guidance, the term eligibility criteria refers to the requirements for entry into a clinical trial (i.e., the 
characteristics the participants must or must not have to be able to participate in the trial).  See the guidance for 
industry Enhancing the Diversity of Clinical Trial Populations — Eligibility Criteria, Enrollment Practices, and 
Trial Designs (November 2020). 
 


--- Page 8 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
5 
  
113 
The estimand framework20—involving a precise description of the treatment effect reflecting the 
114 
clinical question posed by the study objective—can be used to help design an externally 
115 
controlled trial.  An estimand is comprised conceptually of the study population, treatment of 
116 
interest and comparator, outcome of interest, handling of intercurrent events, and summary 
117 
measures.  Many of the elements of the estimand framework are described individually in the 
118 
subsections below, and considering the elements together promotes alignment of trial objectives, 
119 
conduct, analysis, and interpretation of results.  
120 
 
121 
A specific design consideration for externally controlled trials involves prespecifying plans 
122 
regarding how to measure and analyze data on important confounding factors and sources of 
123 
bias.  The ability to identify confounding factors in an externally controlled trial is limited by 
124 
both conceptual and practical concerns.  Conceptually, when seeking to provide evidence of 
125 
effectiveness using an externally controlled trial design, a thorough understanding is needed—
126 
but is often difficult to verify—regarding the natural history21 of the disease involved and 
127 
relevant prognostic factors influencing outcomes.  For example, important prognostic factors for 
128 
an outcome may not be known and therefore cannot be used in the process of developing the 
129 
external control arm to match, as closely as possible, such factors in the treatment arm.   
130 
 
131 
From a practical perspective, fit-for-use data on suspected confounding factors (e.g., history of 
132 
cigarette smoking, performance status) may be missing for some patients or participants or may 
133 
be measured differently in the external control arm compared to the treatment arm.  Accordingly, 
134 
before deciding whether an externally controlled trial is a suitable design to answer the research 
135 
question of interest, sponsors should confirm that recognized, important prognostic 
136 
characteristics can be assessed in the data sources that will be used in an externally controlled 
137 
trial.  Specifically, the source population for the external control arm should be as comparable as 
138 
possible to the treatment arm population, given that controlling for differences between the two 
139 
study arms (see section III.C) becomes more challenging with increasingly dissimilar 
140 
populations.    
141 
 
142 
Although unmeasured confounding, lack of blinding, and other sources of bias cannot be 
143 
eliminated in externally controlled trials, an assessment of the extent of confounding and bias, 
144 
along with analytic methods to reduce the impact of such bias, are critically important in the 
145 
conduct of such trials.  Given the challenges outlined, externally controlled trials are more likely 
146 
 
20 For further information, see the ICH guidance for industry E9(R1) Statistical Principles for Clinical Trials: 
Addendum: Estimands and Sensitivity Analysis in Clinical Trials (May 2021).  
 
21 Changes over time in the understanding of the natural history of a disease can also introduce bias in an externally 
controlled trial.  For example, diagnosis of patients with a genetic disorder may have been based historically on the 
development of signs and symptoms, whereas the development and increased use of genetic testing in clinical trials 
can diagnose patients at earlier stages of disease (see, for example, EA Nannenberg, IAW van Rijsingen, PA van der 
Zwaag, MP van den Berg, JP van Tintelen, MWT Tanck, MJ Ackerman, AAM Wilde, and I Christiaans, 2018, 
Effect of Ascertainment Bias on Estimates of Patient Mortality in Inherited Cardiac Diseases, Circ Genom Precis 
Med, 11(10):e001797).  In such situations, a historical control arm would have shorter diagnosis-to-death intervals 
than a treatment arm, even if the drug of interest has no impact on survival. 
 


--- Page 9 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
6 
to provide convincing results when the effect size on a well-characterized outcome of interest is 
147 
anticipated to be large.22  
148 
 
149 
2. 
Characteristics of Study Populations  
150 
 
151 
In the absence of randomization, a major concern for externally controlled trials is that attributes 
152 
of patients23 likely to influence outcomes in an external control arm will differ from 
153 
corresponding attributes of participants in a treatment arm of the trial.  Examples of baseline 
154 
attributes of participants or patients in treatment and control groups that can be dissimilar include 
155 
demographic and related factors (e.g., age, sex, race, socioeconomic status, geographic region).  
156 
Additional attributes that could be dissimilar but often are more challenging to address include 
157 
disease characteristics (e.g., severity, duration, specific signs and symptoms, performance 
158 
status), prognostic or predictive biomarkers,24 comorbidities, and prior and current treatments 
159 
received.  When accounting for baseline characteristics, specific challenges can include (1) 
160 
whether relevant confounding factors are known and well-characterized; (2) whether such 
161 
confounding factors are captured; (3) whether these factors have been assessed with appropriate 
162 
methods and measured similarly across compared groups; and (4) whether the study’s analytic 
163 
methods sufficiently address the differences in clinical characteristics between the compared 
164 
groups.   
165 
 
166 
A specific consideration involves how well the eligibility criteria can be applied to the external 
167 
control arm in order to obtain a population comparable to the treatment arm.  In addition, unless 
168 
a concurrent control group is being used, sponsors should consider whether diagnostic criteria for 
169 
the condition of interest and other relevant baseline factors, or the approaches used to ascertain 
170 
data on such factors, have changed during the time of data collection.  Accordingly, the protocol 
171 
for an externally controlled trial should include specific plans for evaluating eligibility criteria to 
172 
determine if the criteria can be applied in a manner that allows for selection of similar patients in 
173 
the treatment and external control groups, recognizing the limitations of information available in 
174 
many RWD sources.  
175 
 
176 
3. 
Attributes of Treatment 
177 
 
178 
In properly designed and conducted randomized trials, observed differences in efficacy and 
179 
safety outcomes can generally be attributed to the investigational drug, but confidence in such 
180 
attribution is diminished in externally controlled trials because of concerns over potentially 
181 
 
22 See the ICH guidance for industry E10 Choice of Control Group and Related Issues in Clinical Trials (May 2001) 
and 21 CFR 314.126(b)(v). 
 
23 In this guidance, the term patient refers to a person whose health care information (e.g., regarding a disease) is 
included in a study, whereas the term participant refers to a healthy person or a person with a disease who 
participates in a study. 
 
24 Prognostic and predictive biomarkers are used to assess the rate of disease progression or response to therapy, 
respectively.  For additional discussion, see BEST (Biomarkers, EndpointS, and other Tools) Resource, available at 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK338448, as well as the guidance for industry Enrichment Strategies for 
Clinical Trials to Support Approval of Human Drugs and Biological Products (March 2019).  


--- Page 10 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
7 
important imbalances with respect to treatment between the treatment arm and the external 
182 
control arm that are either not documented or cannot be accounted for.  Such imbalances can 
183 
involve factors related to the treatment of interest (e.g., adherence, dose, timing of initiation, and 
184 
duration of treatment) and receipt of additional treatments.  These concerns are expected when 
185 
the data in the external control arm are from an RWD source, and although the remainder of this 
186 
section focuses on such data sources, potential imbalances can also exist when the data come 
187 
from other clinical trials.  
188 
 
189 
Clinical trial protocols typically include a plan for collecting data on use of concomitant or 
190 
supportive therapies (including non-prescription products) that could affect the outcomes of 
191 
interest, along with detailed data on the characteristics and administration of such therapies.  
192 
Examples include drug formulation, dose, strength, route, timing, frequency, and duration—and 
193 
for certain medications, specific rules for dose modifications, interruptions, or discontinuations 
194 
are specified in the protocol.  In contrast, documentation of such data in routine clinical care may 
195 
not be complete or accurate, and RWD may therefore lack comprehensive details describing the 
196 
administration of a treatment or information on the use of concomitant or supportive therapies.  
197 
For example, suitable data on additional treatment modalities (e.g., radiotherapy and surgical 
198 
interventions when treating patients with cancer) may not be available in certain data sources.  In 
199 
addition, management of treatment- or disease-related adverse events may not be predefined or 
200 
described consistently compared to a trial protocol.    
201 
 
202 
Additional factors can influence the treatment and delivery of care that patients receive as well as 
203 
the assessment of outcomes related to those treatments when data from clinical care are 
204 
analyzed.  Examples include differences in health-seeking behaviors, insurance coverage 
205 
(including prescription drug plans), adoption of clinical practice guidelines, availability of novel 
206 
treatments, and use of companion diagnostic testing (e.g., a genetic test used in conjunction with 
207 
a corresponding therapeutic product).  Access to emergency department or intensive care, 
208 
availability and coordination of subspecialty care, and academic versus community health care 
209 
settings can also be markedly different within or across health care systems or geographic areas.  
210 
These and other health care delivery factors—at the level of the patient, provider, or health 
211 
system—can influence treatment selection.  Such factors should be identified and accounted for 
212 
adequately in externally controlled trials; otherwise, a different design approach (e.g., 
213 
randomized controlled trial) should be considered.  
214 
 
215 
4. 
Designation of Index Date (Time Zero)  
216 
 
217 
A specific and difficult challenge when designing externally controlled trials is specifying the 
218 
index date (also called time zero or zero time), which is the start of the observation period for 
219 
assessing endpoints.  Given the lack of randomization in externally controlled trials, differences 
220 
in the way the index date is determined across trial arms may lead to biased effect estimates.  
221 
The index date for the treatment and control arms in a randomized trial is usually designated as 
222 
the time when eligibility criteria are determined to have been met and a decision was made 
223 
regarding the intended treatment strategy for each participant.  For an externally controlled trial 
224 
that relies on RWD, however, the index date for the control arm can be assigned in various ways.  
225 


--- Page 11 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
8 
If there are temporal differences in this date relative to treatment initiation or other important 
226 
landmark times by treatment arm, any observed treatment effects may be biased.   
227 
 
228 
Determination of the index date in the treatment arm and the external control arm should avoid 
229 
analyses that include a period of time (immortal time) during which the outcome of interest 
230 
could not have occurred in one of the two arms.  If the index date is not established appropriately 
231 
across compared arms in an externally controlled trial, bias due to immortal time can occur.  For 
232 
example, consider an externally controlled trial that involves a time-to-event mortality endpoint 
233 
and an index date established as the time of having failed prior therapy.  If analyses of 
234 
participants in the treatment arm include only those who actually receive the drug of interest, 
235 
then any period of time between eligibility determination (i.e., failed prior therapy) and treatment 
236 
initiation is immortal time; that is, the person must survive the period to receive the drug and be 
237 
accounted for in the analysis.  In contrast, if patients in the external control arm do not receive 
238 
subsequent therapy after determination of eligibility (i.e., failed prior therapy), these patients 
239 
would be included in the analysis regardless of survival.  Accordingly, patients with very short 
240 
survival times would be included in the control arm but not in the treatment arm, introducing a 
241 
bias that makes the drug seem more effective than it actually is.25    
242 
 
243 
When assessing bias that may be introduced related to immortal time in an externally controlled 
244 
trial, the clinical circumstances related to assigning the index date should be considered.  
245 
Specifically, if a treatment strategy is assigned immediately after a discrete and identifiable 
246 
clinical event, the index date for the compared groups may be reasonably determined by the time 
247 
of occurrence of that event.  For example, if treatment is started after an acute myocardial 
248 
infarction, stroke, or heart failure hospitalization, these events may be more suitable to identify 
249 
the index date for both the treatment arm and external control arm.  In contrast, when the event 
250 
that prompts the treatment of interest is not discrete and readily identifiable, such as worsening 
251 
of heart failure symptoms or poor control of hypertension, determining a suitable index date can 
252 
be difficult or may not be possible.  Identifying an index date can also be especially challenging 
253 
in situations in which no treatment is the treatment strategy for the external control arm. 
254 
 
255 
5. 
Assessment of Outcomes 
256 
 
257 
The lack of blinding to treatments in externally controlled trials can pose challenges when 
258 
considering certain outcomes, in that knowledge of the particular treatment by patients, 
259 
caregivers, clinicians, or investigators can potentially lead to a biased estimate of the effect of 
260 
treatment.  Accordingly, whenever possible and for suitable endpoints, the outcome should be 
261 
assessed blinded to treatment status.  In some cases, this activity may require re-adjudication of 
262 
the externally controlled data, such as by blinded independent central review.  Bias can also be 
263 
introduced if outcome assessments in the treatment arm and the external control arm differ based 
264 
on the sources of data involved or the criteria used to establish outcomes.  Sponsors should seek 
265 
to assess outcomes consistently across the treatment arm and the external control arm for the 
266 
results of an externally controlled trial to be credible. 
267 
 
268 
 
25 In a randomized trial, potential periods of immortal time are expected to be balanced across treatment groups. 


--- Page 12 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
9 
Well-defined, reliable, and clinically meaningful outcomes that are typically used in randomized 
269 
trials may be particularly difficult to ascertain and evaluate in an RWD source that is being 
270 
considered for an externally controlled trial.  For example, radiologic endpoints in controlled 
271 
oncology trials (e.g., objective response rate and progression-free survival) are based on 
272 
prespecified imaging assessment frequency and standardized measurement criteria for response 
273 
evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST).  In routine clinical care, however, radiologic 
274 
assessment frequency is variable, and formal tumor measurement may not routinely be 
275 
performed or documented, making a valid assessment of progression-free survival or objective 
276 
response rate using external control data, such as data from EHRs, challenging.26  A similar 
277 
consideration applies to the assessment of motor milestones, such as the ability to sit or walk, 
278 
which are usually not recorded with the same rigor during routine clinical care compared to 
279 
approaches used in clinical trials.  As another example, a randomized trial may include specific 
280 
testing to detect or confirm a particular clinical entity (e.g., severe inflammatory bowel disease 
281 
activity confirmed by endoscopy), whereas various strategies may be used in clinical care to 
282 
identify and confirm the same event.  In some cases, and depending on the outcome, the 
283 
occurrence of an event (e.g., worsening heart failure status according to a specific classification 
284 
system) may not have been evaluated in clinical care or, if evaluated, may not have been 
285 
recorded.  As a general consideration, outcomes of interest are more likely to be recorded in 
286 
clinical records when events are objective and/or require immediate medical attention (e.g., 
287 
stroke or myocardial infarction).   
288 
 
289 
When considering outcomes in externally controlled trials, sponsors should also evaluate the 
290 
consistency of timing of outcome assessments in the treatment arm compared to the external 
291 
control arm.  In general, the timing and frequency of outcome assessments in RWD will have 
292 
been determined during clinical care27 and may have been influenced by the patient’s clinical 
293 
status, whereas outcome assessments in the treatment arm are protocol-specified.  In addition, 
294 
even when external control arm data are from another clinical trial rather than from an RWD 
295 
source, the approach to outcome ascertainment may differ from the treatment arm.  Accordingly, 
296 
sponsors should first establish for what total duration of time and at what intervals the outcome 
297 
of interest should be assessed in the analysis of data from an externally controlled trial.  Based on 
298 
such determinations, sponsors can then evaluate whether the availability and timing of outcome 
299 
assessments are sufficient and comparable across both arms of the externally controlled trial for 
300 
the research hypothesis being tested. 
301 
 
302 
Additional challenges when considering the selection of outcomes to be assessed in an externally 
303 
controlled trial include changing diagnostic criteria over time for what constitutes abnormal 
304 
clinical, radiographic, serologic, or other outcomes.  Whereas both trial arms would be similarly 
305 
affected in a traditional randomized trial, extensive heterogeneity or substantial changes in 
306 
 
26 See EA Eisenhauer, P Therasse, J Bogaerts, LH Schwartz, D Sargent, R Ford, J Dancey, S Arbuck, S Gwyther, M 
Mooney, L Rubinstein, L Shankar, L Dodd, R Kaplan, D Lacombe, and J Verweij, 2009, New Response Evaluation 
Criteria in Solid Tumours: Revised RECIST Guideline (version 1.1), Eur J Cancer, 45(2):228–247.   
 
27 Registries (one type of RWD) may collect data at predetermined and regular intervals, whereas EHRs and medical 
claims data would usually not.  
 


--- Page 13 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
10 
diagnostic criteria can introduce bias when analyzing outcomes using a non-contemporaneous 
307 
external control arm (or when using a reasonably contemporaneous external control arm that 
308 
reflects a different diagnostic standard of care).  As another challenge that can introduce bias, 
309 
biomarkers used as surrogate outcomes in clinical trials may be used for different purposes in 
310 
clinical care, or biomarkers used in clinical care may not be well-characterized in terms of 
311 
comparability to assays used in clinical trials. 
312 
  
313 
Further challenges may arise from differential capture of intercurrent events that may preclude 
314 
the measurement of or impair the interpretability of the treatment effect on the outcome of 
315 
interest.  For example, initiation of ancillary therapy after treatment with the drug of interest is 
316 
started may be protocol-determined and recorded during study visits in a clinical trial, whereas 
317 
data from routine clinical care may not accurately capture additional therapies, which may 
318 
confound interpretation of the effect of treatment on the study outcome.  
319 
 
320 
Other considerations apply when an outcome in an externally controlled trial is based on certain 
321 
clinical outcome assessments.28  For example, the potential lack of standardization and training 
322 
in the definitions and use of such assessments in routine clinical care settings—if the assessments 
323 
are used at all—compared to what occurs in clinical trial settings, can lead to higher variability 
324 
or bias in the measurements from an external control arm.  Accordingly, clinical outcome 
325 
assessments that are acceptable in randomized trials may not be fit for use in externally 
326 
controlled trials.  
327 
 
328 
B. 
Data Considerations for the External Control Arm 
329 
 
330 
1. 
Data from Clinical Trials 
331 
 
332 
Using data from another clinical trial for an external control arm can have advantages compared 
333 
to using data collected during routine clinical care, based in part on the rigor of protocol-based 
334 
(and therefore more consistent) data collection.  Such use would only be appropriate, however, 
335 
when comparability exists between the two trial arms regarding participant eligibility criteria, 
336 
treatment administration, patterns of care (e.g., location of treatment sites), recording of 
337 
concomitant medications, and assessments of adverse events and outcomes.  A particular concern 
338 
for bias would be the selection of an external control arm from a completed trial whose outcomes 
339 
are already known.  This would be especially problematic if the results of the external control 
340 
arm are inconsistent with prior experience.  Furthermore, when using data from other clinical 
341 
trials as an external control arm, sponsors should consider the extent of and reason for any 
342 
missing data and how the interpretability of study results may be affected. 
343 
 
344 
In many situations, data for the treatment and control arms in an externally controlled trial will 
345 
have been collected during different time periods.  Lack of concurrent data collection may be of 
346 
 
28 A clinical outcome assessment is a measure that describes or reflects how a patient feels, functions, or survives.  
Types of such assessments include measures of patient-reported outcomes, observer-reported outcomes, clinician-
reported outcomes, and performance outcomes.  See BEST (Biomarkers, EndpointS, and other Tools) Resource, 
available at https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK338448. 
 


--- Page 14 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
11 
particular concern when the assessment and management of a disease (including supportive care) 
347 
changes over time, such as use of predictive or prognostic biomarkers in the patient population.  
348 
For example, prior trials involving certain cancers may not have information regarding newer 
349 
biomarkers or specific gene alterations of interest or tumor mutational burden.  Accordingly, 
350 
sponsors should assess whether use of data from a specific clinical trial is justified as an external 
351 
control arm when planning an externally controlled trial.  
352 
 
353 
2. 
Data from RWD Sources 
354 
 
355 
The concerns described in the preceding section regarding comparability of participant 
356 
characteristics, timing and frequency of data collection, and patterns of care should be addressed 
357 
when using RWD collected on patients for non-research purposes as external control arms.  In 
358 
addition, specific concerns regarding missing data from RWD sources obtained as part of routine 
359 
clinical practice can threaten the validity of the results of an externally controlled trial.  For 
360 
example, patients who initially met eligibility criteria may be lost to follow-up (e.g., due to 
361 
changing their health care provider) from the external control arm.  Furthermore, availability of a 
362 
dataset containing patients with the disease of interest does not guarantee that there is sufficient 
363 
information on relevant clinical characteristics (e.g., prognostic factors for the outcome of 
364 
interest) to permit an appropriate comparison.  
365 
 
366 
3. 
Considerations for Assessing Comparability of Data Across Trial Arms 
367 
 
368 
The table below summarizes important considerations, discussed above, regarding the 
369 
comparability of data between the treatment arm and the external control arm.  The relevance of 
370 
each consideration can vary on a case-by-case basis, depending on attributes of the treatment 
371 
arm, the selected data source for the external control arm, and the stage of the trial (design, 
372 
conduct, or analysis).  
 
373 


--- Page 15 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
12 
Table.  Summary of Considerations for Assessing Comparability of Data29 
374 
 
375 
Focus of 
Comparison 
Considerations for Data Comparability 
Time periods 
Various aspects of clinical care may change over time, such as the standard of care 
for the condition of interest, types of treatments, supportive care regimens, and 
criteria for determining disease response or progression.  Such temporal differences 
are difficult to address using statistical analyses alone.  It is important to consider 
whether and how different time frames in the treatment arm and the external control 
arm impact the interpretability of study findings. 
Geographic 
region 
Standards of care and other factors (e.g., access to care) that affect health-related 
outcomes can vary across geographic regions and health care systems.  A balance of 
participants or patients across geographic regions and health care systems in an 
externally controlled trial, when possible, can help reduce the impact of confounding 
based on such differences. 
Diagnosis 
The criteria used to establish a diagnosis may differ based on practice variation or 
may have changed in the interval between when the treatment arm of the trial was 
conducted and when the data for the external control arm were collected.  Sponsors 
should consider the diagnostic standards used and whether relevant clinical tests to 
establish a diagnosis were conducted and reported equally across the compared arms. 
Prognosis 
Based on demographic and clinical characteristics—and if sufficient knowledge of 
relevant prognostic factors is available—prognostic indicators for the participants or 
patients in each arm of the trial should be evaluated and shown to be of sufficient 
similarity to permit an unbiased assessment of the treatment-outcome association.   
Treatments  
Attributes of the treatment of interest—including drug formulation, dose, route of 
administration, timing, frequency, and duration as well as specific rules for dose 
modifications, interruptions, discontinuations, and adherence—will have been 
prespecified or measured in the treatment arm.  In contrast, specific aspects of a 
comparator treatment (as applicable) in the external control arm may not have been 
protocol-driven depending on the data source.  Accordingly, sponsors should assess 
whether the external control arm data can be meaningfully compared to the treatment 
arm data. 
Other 
treatment-
related factors 
Various treatment-related considerations, when relevant, include (1) previous 
treatments received (e.g., lines of therapy in patients with cancer), (2) medications 
received concomitantly that can affect the outcome of interest, or (3) predictive 
biomarkers (e.g., genomic testing) related to the treatment of interest.  When 
differentially distributed across groups being compared, such factors can threaten an 
assessment of the drug-outcome association. 
Follow-up 
periods 
Designation of the index date should be consistent between the treatment arm and the 
external control arm, and the duration of follow-up periods should be comparable 
across compared arms. 
Intercurrent 
events 
The relevance of intercurrent events across treatment arms should be assessed, 
including differential use of additional therapies after initiation of the treatment of 
interest.   
Outcome  
Whether endpoints used in an externally controlled trial can be reliably and 
consistently measured across the external control arm and the treatment arm will be 
influenced by several factors, including the definitions of the endpoints, the data 
 
29 Some of the considerations will be relevant to multiple rows. 


--- Page 16 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
13 
Focus of 
Comparison 
Considerations for Data Comparability 
source for the external control arm, and the potential for the outcome to be influenced 
by knowledge of treatment received.  In addition, sponsors should be able to apply 
the same criteria for the evaluation and timing of outcome assessments across both 
arms of the externally controlled trial. 
Missing data 
The extent of missing data in the external control arm should be assessed before 
conducting an externally controlled trial to evaluate feasibility (when such data are 
available).  When analyzing results from such a trial, the extent of missing data in 
both the treatment and external control arms should be assessed to examine the 
potential impact of missing data. 
 
376 
The considerations listed in the table above are directed at understanding and managing potential 
377 
threats to the validity of externally controlled trials.  Additional considerations regarding the 
378 
comparability of trial arms may be relevant for a specific externally controlled trial.  
379 
 
380 
C. 
Analysis Considerations  
381 
 
382 
1. 
General Considerations  
383 
 
384 
Before conducting an externally controlled trial, sponsors should develop a statistical analysis 
385 
plan that prespecifies analyses of interest, such as analyses of primary and secondary endpoints, 
386 
calculations of statistical power and sample size, and plans to control the chance of erroneous 
387 
conclusions (e.g., to control the overall type I error probability).  The statistical analysis plan 
388 
should be submitted along with the protocol to the relevant review division before initiation of 
389 
enrollment in the clinical trial for the experimental treatment.  In addition, decisions regarding 
390 
the study design and statistical analysis plan for an externally controlled trial should be blinded 
391 
to any observed external control data (e.g., from an existing RWD source), with the exception of 
392 
planned feasibility analyses, such as evaluating the availability of key variables or missing data.  
393 
During the conduct of an externally controlled trial, and specifically when analyzing data already 
394 
collected, changes to the statistical analysis plan are discouraged.  If such changes are 
395 
nonetheless implemented, any revisions should be date-stamped and the corresponding rationale 
396 
provided and discussed with the relevant FDA review division. 
397 
 
398 
FDA does not recommend a particular approach to analyzing data from externally controlled 
399 
trials.  No single statistical or analytical method will be suitable for all trials involving external 
400 
control arms, and potential approaches should be discussed with the appropriate FDA review 
401 
division.  Sponsors should provide a justification for the analytic methods selected as well as a 
402 
description of the strengths and limitations of the methods used to assess the effect of treatment.  
403 
In general, the analytic method used should identify and manage sources of confounding and 
404 
bias, including a strategy to account for differences in baseline factors and confounding variables 
405 
between trial arms. 
406 
 
407 
Various statistical methodologies may be appropriate for these types of comparisons, each with a 
408 
corresponding level of complexity regarding approaches to account for bias.  The assumptions 
409 
involved should be made explicit, and sensitivity analyses as well as model diagnostics should be 
410 


--- Page 17 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
14 
conducted to examine such assumptions.  Importantly, however, adding complexity to an 
411 
analytical framework usually requires making additional assumptions, which often cannot be 
412 
substantiated and may impair the interpretability of results.  
413 
 
414 
Even when employing analytic methods to balance the trial arm populations, sponsors should 
415 
propose additional analyses to evaluate the actual comparability between the external control and 
416 
treatment arms for important covariates.  Determining similarity across trial arms will require 
417 
selection of specific population characteristics to compare, a method for the comparison, and 
418 
criteria to demonstrate similarity.  For example, an a priori threshold30 could be set to determine 
419 
whether the external control population has a statistical distribution of covariates that is similar 
420 
to the treatment arm population after a balancing method, such as weighting, has been applied.  
421 
 
422 
Consideration should also be given, based on available scientific data, to the anticipated effect 
423 
size for analyses of the primary endpoint.  Especially when the anticipated effect size is modest, 
424 
an externally controlled trial may not be an appropriate study design because of concerns for bias 
425 
affecting the results.  In addition, sponsors should develop a priori plans for assessing the impact 
426 
of confounding factors and sources of bias, with quantitative or qualitative bias analyses used to 
427 
evaluate these concerns.  Such prespecified analyses can assist in the interpretation of study 
428 
results.  
429 
 
430 
2. 
Missing Data 
431 
 
432 
The proposed analytical methods should include a strategy for dealing with missing data, 
433 
including data that may not be available in a chosen data source based on the type and frequency 
434 
of assessments conducted during the patient encounter, patients no longer being followed, or 
435 
other reasons.  Analytical methods (such as strategies for imputing missing data) may be used in 
436 
such situations, but these methods require assumptions regarding the pattern of missing 
437 
information.31  Assumptions about missing data can be unverifiable and may be difficult to 
438 
justify, in addition to other assumptions required for estimation of treatment effect in a non-
439 
randomized setting.  
440 
 
441 
 
30 FDA does not endorse a single approach for determining thresholds.  As one example, a threshold value could be 
selected for standardized mean differences as a metric that summarizes the statistical distribution of important 
prognostic covariates. 
 
31 The terms missing completely at random, missing at random, and missing not at random describe assumptions 
about why data are missing.  When observations of a variable are missing completely at random, the missing 
observations are a random subset of all observations, such that the missing and observed values have the same 
underlying distributions, and bias from missing data is not a threat to the study.  Missing at random indicates 
systematic differences may exist between the observed and unobserved values of a variable, but other observed 
variables could be used to address such differences and mitigate bias.  Missing not at random indicates that the 
missing data are directly related to the treatment or outcome under investigation, and bias can be introduced.  See 
AR Donders, GJ van der Heijden, T Stijnen, and KG Moons, 2006, Review: A Gentle Introduction to Imputation of 
Missing Values, J Clin Epidemiol, 59(10):1087–1091. 
 


--- Page 18 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
15 
To understand the potential impact of missing data, externally controlled trials should be 
442 
designed to capture and analyze information relevant to the missing data (e.g., available 
443 
characteristics of patients with and without missing data).  Analytical methods may be used, as 
444 
mentioned above, to address potential bias caused by the missing data in the primary analysis.  In 
445 
addition, sensitivity analyses should be used to evaluate the potential impact of plausible 
446 
violations in missing data assumptions on the results of the primary and other key analyses.  
447 
 
448 
In some cases, data may be missing because of an intercurrent event, which may interfere with 
449 
the measurement of outcomes and estimation of the treatment effect.  The study analysis plan 
450 
and an appropriate estimand should account for any intercurrent event that can be considered 
451 
potentially related to both the treatment and outcome of interest, recognizing that certain 
452 
intercurrent events may be difficult to detect in external control datasets.  For example, in 
453 
contrast to data collected according to a research protocol, RWD sources may not capture the 
454 
time of occurrence of an intercurrent event, precluding accurate assessment of time-to-event 
455 
endpoints such as progression-free survival.  
456 
 
457 
3. 
Misclassification of Available Data 
458 
 
459 
Misclassification32 (mischaracterization) of data in externally controlled trials, especially in an 
460 
external control arm using RWD sources, can occur when the value of a measurement is assigned 
461 
to an incorrect category for subsequent analysis, potentially affecting estimates of the observed 
462 
drug-outcome association.  For example, EHR data collected during routine clinical care may 
463 
include information on lifestyle characteristics, such as alcohol use.  Beyond concerns about 
464 
potentially inaccurate reporting by patients about their alcohol intake because of stigma or other 
465 
factors, differences in the approach used to classify alcohol use within or across various sources 
466 
of data can lead to misclassification.  In routine clinical practice, for example, different health 
467 
care providers may use different quantitative or qualitative descriptions of alcohol use, such that 
468 
two patients with the same actual intake may be assigned to two different categories in the RWD 
469 
source.  
470 
 
471 
If misclassification is extensive—especially when information on treatments, outcomes, or 
472 
confounding factors are involved—a biased assessment of the drug-outcome association may 
473 
occur.  For example, the scenario described above regarding misclassification of alcohol intake 
474 
would be relevant when alcohol use is a potentially important confounding factor (covariate) in 
475 
an analysis of an externally controlled trial.  Although analytical modeling methods could be 
476 
used to assess the potential impact of misclassification, the best strategy to avoid bias is to use 
477 
objective and reliable measurements for the data of interest.  For example, RWD sources that 
478 
include information on alcohol intake collected using structured questionnaires are generally 
479 
more reliable than patient-reported and clinician-documented values obtained during routine 
480 
patient care.  
481 
 
32 Misclassification errors can be non-differential when the probability of misclassification is equal across study 
arms or differential when the probability of misclassification differs across study arms.  Misclassification can 
introduce bias regarding the drug-outcome association when involving the drug of interest, covariates, or outcomes 
of interest. 
 


--- Page 19 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
16 
 
482 
4. 
Additional Analyses 
483 
 
484 
Sponsors can also use specific sensitivity analyses to test the vulnerability of trial results to 
485 
assumptions in the analysis plan.  For example, if the primary analysis of a time-to-event 
486 
endpoint assumes proportional hazards, an appropriate sensitivity analysis could be estimation by 
487 
a statistical method that does not assume proportional hazards.  Finally, prespecified 
488 
supplementary analyses can provide further understanding of the treatment effect.  An example 
489 
would be supplementary analyses in prespecified subgroups based on prognostic factors for the 
490 
outcome.  
491 
 
492 
 
493 
IV. 
CONSIDERATIONS TO SUPPORT REGULATORY REVIEW 
494 
 
495 
A. 
Communication with FDA 
496 
  
497 
Sponsors should consult with the relevant FDA review division early in a drug development 
498 
program about whether it is reasonable to conduct an externally controlled trial instead of a 
499 
randomized controlled trial.  As part of these discussions, sponsors should provide a detailed 
500 
description of the (1) reasons why the proposed study design is appropriate, (2) proposed data 
501 
sources for the external control arm and an explanation of why they are fit for use, (3) planned 
502 
statistical analyses, and (4) plans to address FDA’s expectations for the submission of data. 
503 
 
504 
B. 
Access to Data and Documents 
505 
  
506 
Sponsors must include in their marketing applications relevant patient-level data (i.e., data on 
507 
each participant and patient in the externally controlled trial), as required under FDA 
508 
regulations,33 for both the treatment and external control arms.  If sponsors do not own the data 
509 
used for the external control arm, they should structure their agreements with the data owners to 
510 
ensure that patient-level data can be provided to FDA in support of the marketing application. 
511 
Sponsors should also ensure that FDA has access to source documents and source data for the 
512 
external control arm as part of an FDA inspection or upon request.34 
 
513 
 
33 See 21 CFR 314.50(f) and 601.2.  
 
34 See the guidances for industry Use of Electronic Health Record Data in Clinical Investigations (July 2018) and 
Electronic Source Data in Clinical Investigations (September 2013). 


--- Page 20 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
Draft — Not for Implementation 
 
 
 
17 
GLOSSARY 
514 
 
515 
Bias:  Any systematic error in the design, conduct, analysis, or interpretation of a study that 
516 
results in an erroneous estimate of a treatment’s effect on the outcome of interest.  
517 
 
518 
Confounding:  Distortion of the measure of the effect of a treatment on an outcome due to 
519 
another factor that is associated with both the treatment and the outcome.  
520 
 
521 
Intercurrent Event:  An event occurring after treatment initiation that affects either the 
522 
interpretation or the existence of the measurements associated with the clinical question of 
523 
interest.  Examples include switching or discontinuing treatment, using rescue medications, or 
524 
experiencing terminal events such as death.    
525 
 
526 
Real-World Data (RWD):  Data relating to patient health status and/or the delivery of health 
527 
care routinely collected from a variety of sources.  
528 
 
529 
Real-World Evidence (RWE):  Clinical evidence about the usage and potential benefits or risks 
530 
of a medical product derived from analysis of RWD. 
531 
 
532 
Source Data:  All information in original records and certified copies of original records of 
533 
clinical findings, observations, or other activities (in a clinical investigation) used for the 
534 
reconstruction and evaluation of the study.  Source data are contained in source documents (i.e., 
535 
original records or certified copies).35 
536 
 
537 
Source Documents:  Original documents, data, and records (e.g., hospital records; clinical and 
538 
office charts; laboratory notes; memoranda; subjects’ diaries or evaluation checklists; pharmacy 
539 
dispensing records; recorded data from automated instruments; copies or transcriptions certified 
540 
after verification as being accurate copies; microfiches; photographic negatives; microfilm or 
541 
magnetic media; x-rays; subject files; and records kept at the pharmacy, at the laboratories, and 
542 
at the medico-technical departments involved in the clinical trial).36 
543 
 
35 See the guidance for industry Electronic Source Data in Clinical Investigations (September 2013). 
 
36 See the guidance for industry E6(R2) Good Clinical Practice:  Integrated Addendum to ICH E6(R1) (March 
2018). 
