
--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
Non-Inferiority Clinical 
Trials to Establish 
Effectiveness 
 
 
 
Guidance for Industry  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 
Food and Drug Administration 
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) 
Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) 
 
November 2016 
Clinical/Medical 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
 
Non-Inferiority Clinical 
Trials to Establish 
Effectiveness 
 
 
Guidance for Industry 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional copies are available from: 
Office of Communications, Division of Drug Information  
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research 
Food and Drug Administration 
10001 New Hampshire Ave., Hillandale Bldg., 4th Floor  
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002  
Phone: 855-543-3784 or 301-796-3400; Fax: 301-431-6353 
Email: druginfo@fda.hhs.gov  
http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/default.htm 
and/or 
Office of Communication, Outreach and Development  
Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research 
 Food and Drug Administration 
10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 71, Room 3128 
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002 
Phone: 800-835-4709 or 240-402-8010 
Email: ocod@fda.hhs.gov 
http://www.fda.gov/BiologicsBloodVaccines/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/default.htm    
 
 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 
Food and Drug Administration 
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) 
Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) 
 
November 2016 
Clinical/Medical 
 


--- Page 3 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION............................................................................................................. 1 
II. 
BACKGROUND ............................................................................................................... 2 
III. 
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR NON-INFERIORITY STUDIES ................. 3 
A. 
The Non-Inferiority Hypothesis .................................................................................................... 3 
B. 
Reasons for Using a Non-Inferiority Design ................................................................................ 7 
C. 
The Non-Inferiority Margin .......................................................................................................... 8 
D. 
Assay Sensitivity ........................................................................................................................... 11 
E. 
Statistical Inference ..................................................................................................................... 14 
F. 
Regulatory Conclusions ............................................................................................................... 15 
G. 
Alternative Designs ...................................................................................................................... 16 
H. 
Number of Studies Needed .......................................................................................................... 17 
I. 
Choice of Active Control ............................................................................................................. 18 
IV. 
CHOOSING THE NON-INFERIORITY MARGIN AND TESTING THE NON-
INFERIORITY HYPOTHESIS .................................................................................... 19 
A. 
Introduction .................................................................................................................................. 19 
B. 
Statistical Uncertainties and Quantification of the Active Control Effect .............................. 20 
C. 
Fixed Margin and Synthesis Methods ........................................................................................ 27 
D. 
Considerations for Selecting the Clinical Margin (M2) ............................................................ 30 
E. 
Estimating the Sample Size ......................................................................................................... 30 
F. 
Study Quality and Choice of Analysis Population .................................................................... 31 
G. 
Testing Non-Inferiority and Superiority in a Single Trial ....................................................... 31 
V. 
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS AND GENERAL GUIDANCE .................. 32 
APPENDIX — EXAMPLES ...................................................................................................... 37 
REFERENCES FOR EXAMPLES ........................................................................................... 48 
REFERENCES ............................................................................................................................ 51 


--- Page 4 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
Non-Inferiority Clinical Trials to Establish Effectiveness 
Guidance for Industry1 
 
 
 
This guidance represents the current thinking of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA or Agency) on 
this topic.  It does not establish any rights for any person and is not binding on FDA or the public.  You 
can use an alternative approach if it satisfies the requirements of the applicable statutes and regulations.  
To discuss an alternative approach, contact the FDA office responsible for this guidance as listed on the 
title page.   
 
 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
 
This document provides guidance to sponsors and applicants submitting investigational drug 
applications (INDs), new drug applications (NDAs), biologics licensing applications (BLAs), or 
supplemental applications on the appropriate use of non-inferiority (NI) study designs to provide 
evidence of the effectiveness of a drug or biologic, usually because a superiority study design 
(drug versus placebo, dose response, or superiority to an active drug) cannot be used.2  The 
guidance gives advice on when NI studies intended to demonstrate effectiveness of an 
investigational drug can provide interpretable results, how to choose the NI margin, and how to 
test the NI hypothesis.  
 
This guidance does not provide recommendations for the use of NI study designs to evaluate the 
safety of a drug. 
 
In general, FDA’s guidance documents do not establish legally enforceable responsibilities.  
Instead, guidance documents describe the Agency’s current thinking on a topic and should be 
viewed only as recommendations, unless specific regulatory or statutory requirements are cited.  
The use of the word should in FDA guidance documents means suggested or recommended, but 
not required. 
  
This guidance finalizes the draft guidance for industry, Non-Inferiority Clinical Trials, published 
in 2010.  In addition, it supersedes the guidance for industry, Antibacterial Drug Products:  Use 
of Noninferiority Trials to Support Approval, also published in 2010, which will be withdrawn. 
 
1 This guidance has been prepared by the Office of Biostatistics and the Office of New Drugs in the Center for Drug 
Evaluation and Research (CDER) and the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) at the Food and 
Drug Administration.  
 
2 For the purposes of this guidance, all references to drugs include both human drugs and therapeutic biologic 
products unless otherwise specified. While most concepts discussed will be broadly applicable, certain issues related 
to vaccines, such as the choice of the NI margin when the study endpoint is the level of antibodies, would call for 
consultation from CBER. 


--- Page 5 ---
 
2 
 
 
II. 
BACKGROUND 
 
FDA’s regulations on adequate and well-controlled studies (21 CFR 314.126) describe four 
kinds of concurrently controlled trials that provide evidence of effectiveness.  Three of them — 
placebo, no treatment, and dose-response controlled trials — are superiority trials that seek to 
show that a test drug is superior to the control (placebo, no treatment, or a lower dose of the test 
drug).  The fourth kind, comparison with an active treatment (active control), can also be a 
superiority trial, if the intent is to show that the new drug is more effective than the control.  
More commonly, however, the goal of such studies is to show that the difference between the 
new and active control treatment is small — small enough to allow the known effectiveness of 
the active control, based on its performance in past studies and the assumed effectiveness of the 
active control in the current study, to support the conclusion that the new test drug is also 
effective.  How to design and interpret the results of such studies so that they can support a 
conclusion about effectiveness of the new drug is challenging. 
 
Active controlled trials that are not intended to show superiority of the test drug but rather to 
show that the new treatment is not inferior to an unacceptable extent were once called clinical 
equivalence trials.  The intent of an NI trial, however, is not to show that the new drug is 
equivalent, but rather that it is not materially worse than the control.  Therefore, the interest is 
one-sided.  The new drug could be better than the control, and therefore at a minimum non-
inferior, but it would not be equivalent.  
 
The critical difference between superiority and NI trials is that a properly designed and 
conducted superiority trial, if successful in showing a difference, is entirely interpretable without 
further assumptions (other than lack of bias) — that is, the result speaks for itself and requires no 
extra-study information.  In contrast, the NI study is dependent on knowing something that is not 
measured in the study, namely, that the active control had its expected effect in the NI study.  
When this occurs, the trial is said to have assay sensitivity, defined as the ability to have shown  
a difference from placebo of a specified size.  A “successful” NI trial, one that shows what 
appears to be an acceptably small difference between treatments, may or may not have had assay 
sensitivity and therefore may or may not support a conclusion that the test drug was effective.  
Thus, if the active control had no effect at all in the NI trial (i.e., did not have any of its expected 
effect), then even ruling out a very small difference between control and test drug is meaningless 
and provides no evidence that the test drug is effective.  (See Section III.D. for further discussion 
on assay sensitivity.)  In the absence of a placebo arm, knowing whether the trial had assay 
sensitivity relies heavily on external (not within-study) information, giving NI studies some of 
the characteristics of a historically controlled trial. 
 
FDA regulations have recognized since 1985 the critical need to know, for an NI trial to be 
interpretable, that the active control had its expected effect in the trial.  Thus, 21 CFR 
314.126(a)(2)(iv), unchanged since 1985, says: 
 
If the intent of the trial is to show similarity of the test and control drugs, the report of the 
study should assess the ability of the study to have detected a difference between 
treatments.  Similarity of test drug and active control can mean either that both drugs were 
effective or that neither was effective.  The analysis of the study should explain why the 


--- Page 6 ---
 
3 
 
drugs should be considered effective in the study, for example, by reference to results in 
previous placebo-controlled studies of the active control drug. 
 
This guidance consists of four parts: 
 
• A general discussion of regulatory, study design, scientific, and statistical issues 
associated with the use of NI studies to establish the effectiveness of a new drug  
• A focus on some of these issues in more detail, notably the statistical approaches used to 
determine the NI margin and to test for non-inferiority 
• Commonly asked questions about NI studies 
• Four examples of successful and unsuccessful efforts to define NI margins and test for 
non-inferiority3 
 
 
III. 
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR NON-INFERIORITY STUDIES   
 
A. 
The Non-Inferiority Hypothesis 
 
In a placebo-controlled trial, the null hypothesis (Ho) is that the beneficial response to the test 
drug (T) is less than or equal to the response to the placebo (P); the alternative hypothesis (Ha) is 
that the response to the test drug is greater than P.  Thus:  
 
 
 
Ho: T ≤ P;    T – P ≤ 0 
 
 
Ha: T > P;    T – P > 0 
 
In most cases, the test for a treatment effect corresponds to showing that the lower bound of the 
two-sided 95% confidence interval (equivalent to the lower bound of a one-sided 97.5% 
confidence interval) for T-P is > 0.  This result shows that the effect of the test drug is greater 
than 0 (see Figure 1). 
 
 
 
3 References:  In this guidance, references to methods or studies are not included in the text; rather they are included 
in the general references section in the Appendix and are grouped by topic.  A separate references section is also 
provided for the examples in the Appendix. 


--- Page 7 ---
 
4 
 
Figure 1.  Possible Results of a Placebo-Controlled Superiority Study 
(Point Estimate and 95% Confidence Interval (CI)) 
       
 
                                                     Test – Placebo (T-P)  
 
1. Point estimate of effect is 2; 95% CI lower bound is 1.  Conclusion:  Drug is effective 
and has an effect of at least 1. 
2. Point estimate of effect is 2; 95% CI lower bound is <0.  Conclusion:  Drug is not shown 
to be effective. 
3. Point estimate of effect is 0; 95% CI lower bound is well below 0.  Conclusion:  Drug is 
not shown to be effective. 
 
Although there is no difference in the conclusions of scenarios 2 and 3, the magnitude of the 
treatment difference and width of the confidence interval in scenario 2 may encourage the 
conduct of another study (possibly larger) before deciding that the test drug has no effect.  
  
In an NI study, the goal is to demonstrate that the test drug has an effect by showing that its 
effect is sufficiently close to the effect of an active control.  There is no placebo arm in the study; 
therefore, the effect of the active control is not measured in the study but must be assumed.  The 
goal of the study is to show that the effect of the test drug (T) is not inferior to the effect of the 
active control (C) by a specified amount, called the NI margin, or M. 
 
The null and alternative hypotheses correspond to a null hypothesis of inferiority and an 
alternative hypothesis of non-inferiority, as follows:  
 
 Ho: C – T ≥ M (T is inferior to the control (C) by M or more) 
 
 
    Ha: C – T < M (T is inferior to the control (C) by less than M) 


--- Page 8 ---
 
5 
 
 
A statistical test of the above hypothesis is provided by comparing the upper bound of the two-
sided confidence interval for C-T with the NI margin, M, which is specified in advance.  If the 
upper bound is less than M, non-inferiority of T relative to C is established. 
 
One choice for M (the largest possible value) is to set it equal to the entire known effect of the 
active control relative to placebo, based on past randomized controlled trials.  With this choice 
for M, called M1, and assuming the control drug attains this level of efficacy in the NI study, a 
finding of non-inferiority means that the test drug has an effect greater than 0 (see Figure 2).  A 
more usual choice is to set M equal to some clinically relevant portion of M1, namely, the portion 
of the control drug effect it is important to preserve with the test drug, based on clinical 
judgment. 
 
 
 


--- Page 9 ---
 
6 
 
Figure 2.  Possible Results of an NI Study Showing Control Drug–Test Drug Differences 
 (Point Estimate and 95% CI) 
  
                                  
                                               Control – Test (C-T)  
 
1. Point estimate of C-T is 0, suggesting equal effect of C and T; upper bound of the 95% 
CI for C-T is 1, well below M1; NI is demonstrated. 
2. Point estimate of C-T favors C; the upper bound of the 95% CI for C-T is >2, above M1; 
NI is not demonstrated. 
3. Point estimate of C-T is zero, which suggests an equal effect; but the upper bound of the 
95% CI for C-T is >2 (i.e., above M1), so that NI is not demonstrated.  
4. Point estimate favors T; NI is demonstrated, but superiority is not demonstrated.   
5. Point estimate favors T; superiority and NI are demonstrated.  
6. Point estimate of C-T is 1, favoring the control. The upper bound of the 95% CI for C-T 
is <M1, demonstrating NI (the entire effect of C has not been lost) but at the same time 
the 95% CI for C-T is above zero, indicating that T is actually inferior to C, even while 
meeting the NI standard.  
 
The determination of M1 is a critical step in designing an NI trial and is often difficult; this 
determination is therefore a major focus of this guidance.  M1 cannot be directly measured in the 
NI study, because there is no concurrent placebo group.  It must be estimated based on the past 
performance of the active control, preferably in placebo-controlled trials, and then assumed to 
hold for the NI study based on a comparison of prior test conditions to the current test 
environment (see section III.D).   
 


--- Page 10 ---
 
7 
 
The choice of the margin M1 has important practical consequences.  The smaller the margin, the 
lower the upper bound of the 95% two-sided confidence interval for C-T must be, and the larger 
the sample size needed to establish non-inferiority.  Showing that the upper bound of the 95% CI 
of C-T is less than M1 demonstrates that the test drug has some effect (i.e., an effect > 0). The 
margin of interest, however, as noted above, is usually smaller than M1 (to show that an adequate 
portion of the clinical benefit of the control is preserved), in which case it is called M2.  The 
basis for this expectation is described below in section III.C.4. 
 
B. 
Reasons for Using a Non-Inferiority Design  
 
The usual reason for using an NI active control study design instead of a superiority design is an 
ethical one.  Specifically, this design is chosen when it would not be ethical to use a placebo, or a 
no-treatment control, or a very low dose of an active drug, because there is an effective treatment 
that provides an important benefit (e.g., life-saving or preventing irreversible injury) available to 
patients for the condition to be studied in the trial.  Whether a placebo control can be used 
depends on the nature of the benefits provided by available therapy.  The International 
Conference on Harmonisation guidance E10: Choice of Control Group and Related Issues in 
Clinical Trials (ICH E10) states: 
 
In cases where an available treatment is known to prevent serious harm, such as death or 
irreversible morbidity in the study population, it is generally inappropriate to use a 
placebo control.  There are occasional exemptions, however, such as cases in which 
standard therapy has toxicity so severe that many patients have refused to receive it. 
 
In other situations, where there is no serious harm, it is generally considered ethical to 
ask patients to participate in a placebo-controlled trial, even if they may experience 
discomfort as a result, provided the setting is non-coercive and patients are fully informed 
about available therapies and the consequences of delaying treatment [ICH E10; pps.13-
14]. 
 
Aside from this ethical reason, there may be other reasons to include an active control, possibly 
in conjunction with a placebo control, either to compare treatments or to assess assay sensitivity 
(see section III.D).  Caregivers, third party payers, and some regulatory authorities have 
increasingly placed an emphasis on the comparative effectiveness of treatments, leading to more 
studies that compare two treatments.  Such studies can provide information about the clinical 
basis for comparative effectiveness claims, which may be helpful in assessing cost effectiveness 
of treatments.  If a placebo group is included in addition to the active comparator, it becomes 
possible to judge whether the study could have distinguished treatments that differed 
substantially, e.g., active drug versus placebo.  Such comparative effectiveness studies must be 
distinguished from NI studies, which are the main focus of this document.  The word non-
inferior is used here in a special sense.  The methods described in this document are intended to 
show that a new treatment that demonstrates non-inferiority is effective, not that it is as effective 
as the active comparator.  A new treatment may meet the standard of effectiveness (that it is 
superior to placebo) without justifying a conclusion that it is as effective or even nearly as 
effective as the active comparator.    
  


--- Page 11 ---
 
8 
 
C. 
The Non-Inferiority Margin  
 
As described above, the NI study seeks to show that the amount by which the test drug (T) is 
inferior to the active control (C), C-T, is less than some prespecified NI margin (M).  M can be 
no larger than the presumed entire effect of the active control in the NI study, and the margin 
based on the entire active control effect is generally referred to as M1.  It is critical to recognize 
that M1 is not measured in the NI trial (in the absence of a placebo arm), but rather is estimated 
based on past performance of the active control.  The effect is assumed to be present in the 
current study based on a thorough comparison of the characteristics of the current NI study with 
those of prior studies and assessment of the quality of the NI study.  The validity of any 
conclusion from the NI study depends on the choice of M1 and its relevance to the current NI 
study.  If, for example, the NI margin is chosen as 10, and the study does indeed rule out a 
difference of 10 (but not a smaller difference), seeming to demonstrate effectiveness of T, but the 
true effect of C in this study was actually less than 10, then a conclusion that the study 
demonstrated non-inferiority would have been incorrect.  The choice of M1, together with 
reasonable assurance that this effect occurred in the trial (i.e., the presence of assay sensitivity), 
is thus critical to obtaining a meaningful, correct answer in an NI study.  Because assay 
sensitivity can never be proven in the absence of a placebo group, historical evidence of assay 
sensitivity is essential, but measures should be taken to make it likely that the active control will 
have the presumed effect in the NI study (see section III.A.5).  This, together with careful 
selection of the NI margin, will increase the likelihood of valid and interpretable results. 
 
Because the consequence of choosing a margin greater than the actual treatment effect of the 
active control in the study may be a false conclusion that a new drug is effective, an undesirable 
public health outcome, there is a powerful tendency to be conservative both in the choice of 
margin and in the statistical analysis used to rule out a degree of inferiority of the test drug to the 
active control of more than that margin.  This is generally done by ensuring that the upper bound 
of the 95% two-sided confidence interval for C-T in the NI trial is smaller than M1.  Use of this 
interval corresponds to a one-sided test size (alpha level) of 0.025 in testing the NI hypothesis 
stated above.  The upper bound of the confidence interval for C-T is not, however, the only 
measurement of interest, just as the lower bound of a 95% confidence interval for the effect of 
drug versus placebo in a superiority trial is not the only value of relevance.  The point estimate of 
the treatment effect and the width of its confidence interval are also relevant.  Nonetheless, the 
upper bound of the 95% confidence interval is typically used to judge the effectiveness of the test 
drug in the NI study, just as a two-sided test size (alpha level) of 0.05 is traditionally the standard 
used for defining success in a superiority trial.  The 95% confidence interval upper bound for C-
T is used, in conjunction with M1, to provide a reasonably high level of assurance that the test 
drug does, in fact, have an effect greater than zero (i.e., ruling out loss of all the effect of the 
active control).   
 
Although the NI margin used in a trial can be no larger than the entire assumed effect of the 
active control in the NI study (M1), it is usual and generally desirable to choose a smaller value, 
called M2, for the NI margin.  Showing non-inferiority to M1 would provide assurance that the 
test drug had an effect greater than zero, but in many cases that would not be sufficient to 
conclude that the test drug had a clinically acceptable effect.  Recall that the main reason an NI 
study is conducted is that it is not ethical to include a placebo arm.  The active control has a 


--- Page 12 ---
 
9 
 
beneficial effect, and denying that benefit to subjects with a serious illness is not ethical. For the 
same reason, it would not usually be acceptable for a test drug to lose most of that active 
control’s effect.  It is therefore usual in NI studies to choose a smaller margin (M2) that reflects 
the largest loss of effect that would be clinically acceptable.  This can be described as an absolute 
difference in effect (typical of antibiotic trials) or as a fraction of the risk reduction provided by 
the control (typical in cardiovascular outcome trials).  Note that a larger value for M2 may be 
justified clinically, if the test drug were shown to have some important advantage (e.g., on safety 
or on a secondary endpoint). 
 
Concern has been expressed that use of M2 represents an FDA “comparative effectiveness” 
standard that is not included in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. In explaining the role 
of relative effectiveness under law in April 1995, President Clinton and Vice President Gore 
(“Reinventing Regulation of Drugs and Medical Devices,” part of the National Performance 
Review) stated the following: 
 
In certain circumstances, however, it may be important to consider  
whether a new product is less effective than available alternative therapies,  
when less effectiveness could present a danger to the patient or to  
the public. For example, it is essential for public health protection  
that a new therapy be as effective as alternatives that are already approved  
for marketing when: 
1. the disease to be treated is life-threatening or capable of causing  
irreversible morbidity (e.g., stroke or heart attack); or 
2. the disease to be treated is a contagious illness that poses serious  
consequences to the health of others (e.g., sexually transmitted disease).  
 
The reinvention statement was placed in the Federal Register of August 1, 1995 (60 FR 39180 at 
39181), as an FDA position by FDA’s Deputy Commissioner for Policy, William Schultz.  
    
The definitions used to describe these two versions of M are: 
 
 
M1 = the entire effect of the active control assumed to be present in the NI study  
 
M2 = the largest clinically acceptable difference (degree of inferiority) of the test drug 
compared to the active control  
 
M1 is estimated based on the historical experience with the active control drug.  Its relevance to 
the current NI trial is based on: 
 
1. Assessment of the likelihood that the current effect of the active control is similar to that 
observed in the past studies used to estimate the active control effect (the constancy 
assumption) 
2. Assessment of the quality of the NI trial, particularly looking for deficiencies in study 
design and/or conduct that could reduce a difference between the active control and the 
new drug 
 
Note that in a trial seeking to show a difference (i.e., superiority), this diminution of the between-
treatment difference in the second element is a “bias toward the null,” but in a non-inferiority 


--- Page 13 ---
 
10 
 
trial, it is a “bias toward the alternative” (i.e., non-inferiority).  Because of this second element, 
in some situations M1, although prespecified, has to be “discounted” (i.e., a smaller value would 
be used), but the amount of discounting needed may not be known until the NI study has been 
completed. 
 
The choice of M2 is a matter of clinical judgment, but M2 can never be greater than M1, even for 
a situation in which the active control drug has a small effect, and clinical judgment might argue 
that a larger difference is not clinically important.  Even if that clinical judgment were 
reasonable, choosing an M2 greater than M1 as the NI margin would not allow a conclusion that 
the test drug has any effect.  As explained above, ruling out a difference between the active 
control and test drug larger than M1 is the critical finding that supports a conclusion of 
effectiveness.  This analysis is approached with great rigor; that is, a difference (C-T) larger than 
M1 needs to be ruled out with a high degree of statistical assurance.  As M2 represents a clinical 
judgment, there may be a greater flexibility in interpreting a 95% upper bound for C-T that is 
slightly greater than M2, as long as the upper bound is still well less than M1 (see Figure 3). 
 
 
 


--- Page 14 ---
 
11 
 
Figure 3.  Possible Results of an NI Study Showing Active Control – Test Drug Differences 
(Point Estimate and 95% CI) 
   
               
 
                                    Control – Test (C-T); (degree of inferiority of test drug) 
 
1. C-T point estimate = 0 and upper bound of 95% CI < M2, indicating test  
drug is effective and adequately rules out an unacceptable loss of the control 
effect (NI demonstrated). 
2. Point estimate of C-T favors C;  upper bound of 95% CI < M1 but  
> M2, indicating test drug effect > 0 but an unacceptable loss of the control effect 
has not been ruled out. 
3.   Point estimate of C-T is zero and upper bound of 95% CI < M1 but it is  
slightly greater than M2.  Loss of the pre-specified M2 has thus not been ruled out, 
but whether the study has shown adequate preservation of the control effect would 
be a matter of clinical judgment. 
4.   C-T point estimate favors C and upper bound of 95% CI > M1, indicating  
                         the study does not provide evidence of effectiveness for test drug. 
 
D. 
Assay Sensitivity 
 
Assay sensitivity is an essential property of an NI clinical trial.  Assay sensitivity is the ability of 
the trial to have detected a difference between treatments of a specified size.  Stated in another 
way, assay sensitivity means that had the study included a placebo, a control drug-placebo 
difference of at least M1 would have been present. 
   


--- Page 15 ---
 
12 
 
As explained above, the choice of M1, and the conclusion that a trial has assay sensitivity (i.e., 
the active control would have had an effect of at least M1), is based on three considerations: 
   
1. Historical evidence of sensitivity to drug effects 
2. The similarity of the new NI trial to the historical trials (the constancy assumption)  
3. The quality of the new trial (ruling out defects that would tend to minimize differences 
between treatments) 
  
1. Historical Evidence of Sensitivity to Drug Effects (HESDE) 
 
HESDE means that prior studies, which were appropriately designed and conducted trials in the 
past and that used a specific active treatment (generally the one that is to be used in the new NI 
study or, in some cases, one or more pharmacologically closely related drugs), regularly showed 
this treatment to be superior to placebo (or some other treatment).  Consistent findings in past 
studies allow for a reliable estimate of the drug’s effect compared to placebo.  The estimate of 
the size of the effect must take the variability of past results into account; one should not 
presume that the largest effect seen in any trial, or even the point estimate of a meta-analysis of 
all relevant trials, is certain to be repeated.  Analysis of historical data will be discussed further 
in section IV. 
 
HESDE cannot be determined for many symptomatic treatments (e.g., treatments for depression, 
anxiety, insomnia, angina, symptomatic heart failure, symptoms of irritable bowel disease, and 
pain), as even well-designed and conducted studies for such indications often fail to distinguish 
an effective drug from placebo.  In those cases, it cannot be assumed that an active control would 
have shown superiority to a placebo (had there been one) in any given NI study, and NI studies 
of drugs for these indications may therefore be non-informative.  These issues can also 
negatively affect the assessment of effectiveness in outcome studies.  For example, in the case of 
aspirin, the largest placebo-controlled trial (AMIS, the Aspirin Myocardial Infarction Study; see 
Example 2) did not show an effect of aspirin even though other trials all favored aspirin.  
Similarly, of more than 30 post-infarction beta-blocker trials, only a small number showed 
significantly improved survival or other cardiovascular benefit.  
 
2. Similarity of the Current NI Trial to the Historical Studies and Its Relationship to the 
“Constancy Assumption” 
 
The conclusion that HESDE can be used to estimate the effect of the active control, which will 
then serve as the basis for choosing M1 for the new NI study, can be reached only when it is 
appropriate to conclude that the NI study is sufficiently similar to the past studies with respect to 
all important study design and conduct features that might influence the active control effect.  
This conclusion is referred to as the “constancy assumption.”  The design features of interest 
include: 
 
• The characteristics of the patient population  
• Important concomitant treatments  
• Definitions and ascertainment of study endpoints  
• Dose of active control  


--- Page 16 ---
 
13 
 
• Entry criteria 
• Analytic approaches  
  
For example, the effect of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor on heart failure 
mortality has repeatedly been shown in studies where the drugs were added to diuretics and 
(frequently) digoxin, establishing HESDE, but evolution in treatment since those studies were 
conducted raises questions about our understanding of the present-day effect of ACE inhibitors.  
Since the time of those studies, other medications (beta blockers, spironolactone) have come into 
standard use.  We do not know whether the past effect would still be present when ACE 
inhibitors are added to a regimen including drugs from these two classes.  Similarly, the effect of 
a thrombolytic on cardiovascular mortality could depend on how soon after symptoms the drug 
was given, concomitant use of anticoagulants and platelet inhibitors, and use of lipid-lowering 
drugs.  To provide a sound basis for choosing M1, the historical studies and the new NI study 
should be as nearly identical as possible in all important respects. 
 
Providing reasonable assurance that endpoints in the historical trial will be similar to, and will 
have been evaluated similarly to, endpoints in the new trial is easier when the endpoints are 
standardized and objective.  The effect of the active control could be on a single endpoint (e.g., 
mortality) or on a composite (e.g., death, heart attack, and stroke), but, again, it is critical that 
measurement and assessment of these be reasonably consistent over time.  The endpoint used in 
the NI study need not necessarily be the one used in the original trials of the active control if data 
from the historical studies are available to estimate the size of the effect of the active control on 
the new endpoint used in the NI study.  For example, even if the historical studies used a 
mortality endpoint, the studies could be used, if high quality data could be obtained, to calculate 
the magnitude of an effect for an endpoint of death plus hospitalization, as long as it was possible 
to be confident that the circumstances leading to the hospitalization were similar in the historical 
studies and the NI study.  Note, however, that it would not be acceptable to search through a 
range of endpoints to find the largest historical effect, as this could represent an overestimate of 
the effect to be expected in the NI study. 
 
In general, where there has been substantial evolution over time in disease definition and 
treatment, or where the methodology used in the historical trials has become outdated, the 
assumption of constancy may not be supported, and, therefore, the use of an NI design may not 
be justified. 
 
Although an NI study can be designed to be similar in most aspects to the historical studies, it 
may not be possible to assess that similarity fully until the NI study is completed and various 
characteristics of the study population and response are evaluated.  When there is known 
heterogeneity of the active control treatment effect related to patient characteristics (e.g., age, 
sex, severity) and that heterogeneity can be quantified, it may be necessary to adjust the estimate 
of the size of the active control effect in the NI study if the mix of patient characteristics in the 
historical studies and the NI study differ substantially. 
 
The property of constancy of the treatment effect may depend on which metric is chosen to 
represent the treatment effect.  This issue is discussed in more depth in section IV.B.2.c.  
Experience suggests that when background rates of outcome events differ among study 


--- Page 17 ---
 
14 
 
populations, metrics like hazard ratio or relative risk may be more stable than metrics like 
absolute risk difference, which are more sensitive to changes in event rates in the population. 
 
3. Good Study Quality 
 
Conducting any poor quality studies should always be avoided, but with NI studies, sloppiness in 
study design/conduct is particularly problematic, because it introduces bias towards the 
alternative hypothesis of non-inferiority (see ICH E10; pp. 11-12 and section IV.F for further 
discussion).  Deficiencies such as imprecise or poorly implemented entry criteria, poor 
compliance, use of concomitant treatments whose effects may overlap with the drugs under 
study, inadequate measurement techniques, errors in delivering assigned treatments, high 
attrition, or poor follow-up may reduce the difference C-T observed in the study, potentially 
leading to a false conclusion of non-inferiority.  It should also be appreciated that intent-to-treat 
approaches, which preserve the principle that all patients are analyzed according to the treatment 
to which they have been randomized even if they do not receive it, although conservative in 
superiority trials, are not necessarily conservative in an NI study and can lead to an incorrect 
finding of non-inferiority.  
 
In a superiority trial, sloppiness can lead to study failure.  In contrast, poor quality in an NI trial 
can sometimes lead to an apparent finding of non-inferiority that is incorrect.  Therefore, 
particular attention to quality is critical when planning and conducting an NI study.  Adjustment 
for poor quality after the fact is usually not possible.  
 
E. 
Statistical Inference 
 
The various approaches to calculating the NI margin and analyzing an NI study will be discussed 
in detail in section IV.  A commonly used fixed margin method is generally referred to as the 
95%-95% method.  The first 95% refers to the confidence interval of the estimated effect of the 
control based on the historical studies demonstrating the effect, and the second 95% refers to the 
confidence interval used to test the null hypothesis in the NI study.  Note that the first 95% lower 
confidence bound discussed here is a bound for the average effect of the active comparator in 
historical studies, or the true effect in the NI study if the constancy assumption holds.  It is 
sometimes supposed that this is a lower bound for the actual effect of the comparator in the NI 
study, and the draft guidance (issued in 2010) suggests this, but this is not correct.  The 95% 
lower bound does indeed define a lower bound for the true control effect, but the actual effect in 
the NI study would still be liable to sampling variation.  To bound the actual effect, a different 
type of interval would be required; these intervals are known as prediction intervals and are 
much wider than the corresponding confidence intervals.  Confidence intervals nevertheless 
suffice for the present purpose, because the confidence interval from the historical studies 
bounds the true effect of the comparator relative to placebo, and the confidence interval from the 
NI study bounds the true effect of the test drug relative to the comparator.  Relying always on the 
constancy assumption, these can be combined to infer a positive effect of the test drug relative to 
placebo. 
 
The 95%-95% fixed margin approach (using in this case a risk difference rather than a risk ratio 
for the margin) can be illustrated by FDA’s evaluation of a new thrombolytic product, reteplase, 


--- Page 18 ---
 
15 
 
for treatment of acute myocardial infarction (AMI).  To calculate the NI margin, results of all 
available placebo-controlled trials of streptokinase, the active comparator (control) for the NI 
study, were pooled by means of an appropriate meta-analytic method.  The pooled results 
provided a point estimate for the effect on survival of an absolute 2.6% difference in mortality 
rates, with a 95% lower bound of 2.1% (i.e., M1).  A clinical decision was made that any new 
thrombolytic should rule out a loss of more than half of the benefit of streptokinase to be 
regarded as an acceptable alternative.  The NI study would therefore have had to rule out an 
absolute 1.05% increase in mortality rate (i.e., M2) in the reteplase-treated patients compared to 
those treated with streptokinase.  The NI analysis for this study was to show that the 95% 
confidence interval (one-sided for this particular case) of the difference in mortality rates 
excluded an increase of 1.05%.  The INJECT study accomplished this, and the product was 
approved for marketing. 
 
An alternative to the fixed margin approach is known as the synthesis approach because it 
combines or synthesizes the data from the historical trials and the current NI trial, reflecting the 
variability in both data sources.  Although the 95%-95% method was developed in a different 
way, it has been noted that it can be viewed as mathematically equivalent to the synthesis 
method but with the standard error of the effect of the test drug relative to placebo, estimated by 
 
𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝐻𝐻+ 𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑁𝑁 , 
 
where SEH and SEN are the standard errors from the historical studies and the NI study, 
respectively, rather than by 
 
ඥ𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝐻𝐻
2 + 𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑁𝑁
2 , 
 
which is the standard error for the synthesis method.  The first formula always gives a larger 
standard error than the second.  Thus, compared to the synthesis method, the 95%-95% method 
is conservative.  Both methods rely crucially on the assumption of constant effect of the control 
(on average) between the historical studies and the NI study.  The use of the 95%-95% method 
might be seen as an allowance for possible deviation from this assumption, a desirable feature for 
evaluating whether loss of M1 (the whole effect of the control) has been ruled out. Use of the 
synthesis method, along with a careful justification of the constancy assumption and, when 
appropriate, an explicit allowance for deviation from it, would also be acceptable and may be 
recommended for determining whether a loss of effect greater than M2 has been ruled out (see 
Section IV.C and Example 1(B) for more detail). 
 
F. 
Regulatory Conclusions 
 
A successful NI study shows rigorously that the test drug has an effect greater than zero if it 
excludes an NI margin of M1, as long as M1 is well chosen and represents an effect that the 
control drug actually would have had (versus a placebo, had there been a placebo group).  The 
NI study can also be used to show that the test drug had an effect greater than some fraction of 
the control drug effect, depending on the M2 that is used.  Note, however, that although a 
successful NI study supports effectiveness of the test drug, it will only rarely support a 
conclusion that the drug is “equivalent” or “similar” to the active control, a concept that has not 


--- Page 19 ---
 
16 
 
been well defined for these situations.  It should be appreciated that in addition to the rigorous 
demonstration of effectiveness based on significance testing, the trial provides additional 
information, just as a placebo-controlled trial supporting the effectiveness of a drug does.  The 
point estimate of the drug effect and its confidence interval provide information about how large 
the difference between the test and control drug is likely to be.  
 
As noted before, a successful NI study will usually not be sufficient to support a conclusion that 
the test drug is equivalent or similar to the active control.  The methods discussed in this 
document, especially with regard to choosing the margin, are not intended to demonstrate 
equivalence or similarity but only to show that the test drug is effective.  However, if the lower 
bound of the confidence interval for the effect of the test drug relative to the active control were 
only slightly negative, a judgment that similarity had been shown would be possible.  If studies 
are intended to support equivalence, the margin against which the confidence interval is to be 
judged should be justified in advance, and the margin will usually be smaller than M2.   
 
G. 
Alternative Designs 
 
ICH E10 identifies a wide variety of study designs that may be better than an NI design in 
situations where there is difficulty or uncertainty in setting the NI margin or where the NI margin 
needs to be so small that the NI study sample size becomes impossibly large. 
 
1. Add-on Study 
 
In many cases, for a pharmacologically novel treatment, the most interesting question is not 
whether it is effective alone but whether the new drug can add to the effectiveness of treatments 
that are already available.  The most pertinent study would therefore be a comparison of the new 
agent and placebo, each added to established therapy.  Thus, new treatments for heart failure 
have added new agents (e.g., ACE inhibitors, beta blockers, and spironolactone) to diuretics and 
digoxin.  As each new agent became established, it became part of the background therapy to 
which any new agent and placebo would be added.  This approach is also typical in oncology, in 
the treatment of seizure disorders, and, in many cases, in the treatment of AIDS. 
 
2. Identifying a Population Not Known to Benefit From Available Therapy in Which a 
Placebo-Controlled Trial Is Acceptable 
 
In many outcome study settings, effectiveness is established for some clinical settings (e.g., 
severe disease) but not others.  Therefore, it may be possible to study less severely ill patients in 
placebo-controlled trials.  The demonstration that simvastatin was effective in 
hypercholesterolemic post-infarction patients (4S), for example, did not preclude studies of 
statins in hypercholesterolemic non-infarction patients (WOSCOPS) or in patients with lesser 
degrees of hypercholesterolemia (TEXCAPS).  This approach is appropriate as long as there is 
uncertainty as to whether the treatment is of value in the new study population.  It may also be 
possible to study patients intolerant to the known effective therapy.  For example, it was possible 
to study angiotensin receptor blockers in a placebo-controlled trial in heart failure patients 
intolerant of ACE inhibitors, but it would not have been possible to deny a more general 


--- Page 20 ---
 
17 
 
population of heart failure patients an ACE inhibitor, as it had already been established that ACE 
inhibitors improved survival in a general heart failure population.  
 
3. Early Escape, Rescue Treatment, Randomized Withdrawal 
 
In symptomatic conditions, there may be reluctance to leave people on placebo for prolonged 
periods when effective therapy exists.  It is possible to incorporate early escape/rescue provisions 
for patients who do not respond by a particular time, or to use a design that terminates patients 
on first recurrence of a symptom such as unstable angina, grand mal seizure, or paroxysmal 
supra-ventricular tachycardia.  To evaluate the persistence of effects over time, where conducting 
a long-term placebo-controlled trial would be difficult, a randomized withdrawal study can be 
used.  In these studies, patients successfully treated with a drug are randomly assigned to placebo 
or continued drug treatment.  As soon as symptoms return, the patient is considered to have had 
an endpoint. 
 
H. 
Number of Studies Needed 
 
Ordinarily, with exceptions allowed by the FDA Modernization Act of 1997 (the Modernization 
Act), FDA expects that there will be more than one adequate and well-controlled study 
supporting effectiveness.  The Modernization Act allows one study plus confirmatory evidence 
to serve as substantial evidence in some cases, and FDA has issued a guidance that discusses 
when a single study might be sufficient.2 
 
Where there is uncertainty about the magnitude of the historical treatment effect (and thus M1) 
because of variability or reliance on a single historical study, more than one NI study is usually 
needed to support effectiveness.  
 
Where the studies are of relatively modest size, there is usually no impediment to conducting 
more than one NI trial if that appears necessary.  Conducting two trials that are very large (to 
have adequate statistical power), however, may be infeasible, and it is worth considering what 
might make a single trial persuasive.  Generally, two considerations might do so:  (1) availability 
of other relevant information and (2) a statistically persuasive result. 
 
1. Other Relevant Information 
 
In NI trials, the test drug is generally pharmacologically similar to the active control (i.e., if they 
were not pharmacologically similar, an add-on study would usually have been more persuasive 
and more practical).  In these cases, the expectation of similar performance (but still requiring 
confirmation in a trial) might make it possible to accept a single trial and perhaps could also 
 
2  See the guidance for industry Providing Clinical Evidence of Effectiveness for Human Drug and Biological 
Products (Providing Clinical Evidence of Effectiveness guidance), available on the FDA Drug Web page at 
http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/default.htm.  We update 
guidances periodically.  To make sure you have the most recent version of a guidance, check the FDA Drug Web 
page. 


--- Page 21 ---
 
18 
 
allow less conservative choices in choosing the NI margin.  A similar conclusion might be 
reached when other types of data are available, for example: 
 
• If there were a very persuasive biomarker confirming similar activity of the test drug and 
active control (e.g., tumor response, ACE inhibition, or extent of beta blockade) 
• If the drug has been shown to be effective in closely related clinical settings (e.g., 
effective as adjunctive therapy with an NI study of monotherapy) 
• If the drug has been shown to be effective in distinct but related populations (e.g., adult 
versus pediatric) 
 
2. Statistically Persuasive Result 
 
A conclusion that an NI trial can be considered statistically persuasive may be based on the 
internal consistency of the NI finding or on the margin that is ruled out with a two-sided 95% 
confidence interval.  It is important to recognize that there are two margins of interest, M1 and 
M2.  In an NI study, the clinically determined margin M2 is smaller, often considerably smaller, 
than M1, which is used to determine whether the test drug has any effect.  For example, M2 might 
be chosen to be 40% of M1.  By meeting this M2 criterion, ruling out a loss of 40% of the effect 
of the control, a single NI study provides reasonable assurance that the test drug preserves a 
clinically sufficient fraction (at least 60%) of the effect of the control treatment.  At the same 
time, it provides strong assurance that the test drug has an effect greater than zero.  In such cases, 
a single trial would usually be a sufficient basis for approval.  Where the preservation of effect is 
particularly critical, of course, demonstrating that loss of M2 has been ruled out in more than one 
study might be considered necessary.    
 
In some cases, a study planned as an NI study may show superiority to the active control.  
Recommendations in International Conference on Harmonisation guidance E9: Statistical 
Principles for Clinical Trials (ICH E9) and FDA policy have been that this superiority finding 
arising in an NI study can be interpreted without adjustment for multiplicity.  Showing 
superiority to an active control is a very persuasive demonstration of the effectiveness of the test 
drug, because demonstrating superiority to an active drug is much more difficult than 
demonstrating superiority to placebo.  Similarly, a finding of less than superiority, but with a 
95% confidence interval upper bound for C-T considerably smaller than M2, is also statistically 
persuasive for demonstrating effectiveness. 
 
I. 
Choice of Active Control  
 
The active control must be a drug whose effect is well-defined.  The most obvious choice is a 
single drug for which historical placebo-controlled trials are available to define the active control 
effect assumed for the NI trial.  When there are several pharmacologically similar drugs, it may 
be possible to use a combined analysis to choose an NI margin, and in that case, any one of the 
related drugs may be considered as the active control in the NI trial (see section IV.B.2.b). 
  
 


--- Page 22 ---
 
19 
 
IV. 
CHOOSING THE NON-INFERIORITY MARGIN AND TESTING THE NON-
INFERIORITY HYPOTHESIS 
 
A. 
Introduction 
 
In this section, various sources of uncertainty that come into play for NI trials are discussed, with 
particular emphasis on those affecting the choice of margin.  We also discuss in more detail the 
choice of statistical test for the NI hypothesis.  As described briefly in section III, there are two 
different approaches to analysis of the NI study, one called the fixed margin method and the 
other called the synthesis method.  Both use the same data from the historical studies and NI 
study, but in different ways.   
 
● With the fixed margin method, the margin M1 is based upon estimates of the effect of the 
active comparator in previously conducted studies.  The NI margin to be ruled out in the NI 
study is then prespecified, and it is usually chosen as a quantity smaller than M1 (i.e., M2) to 
ensure that a reasonable fraction of the effect of the control is preserved.  The NI study is 
successful if the results rule out with a sufficient level of confidence (e.g., 97.5%) inferiority of 
the test drug to the control by an amount equal to the NI margin or more.  It is referred to as a 
fixed margin method because the past studies comparing the control drug with placebo are used 
to derive a single fixed value for M1.  The value typically chosen is the lower bound of the 95% 
confidence interval about the treatment effect of a single placebo-controlled trial or meta-
analysis of such trials and represents a conservative estimate of the effect the active control drug 
is expected to have in the NI study.  If M1 is ruled out by the 95% confidence interval upper 
bound for C-T, then the conclusion is made that the test drug has an effect.  If M2 is ruled out, 
then the effect of the test drug has been shown to preserve a clinically important fraction of the 
effect of the control drug. 
 
●  The synthesis method, derived from the same data, combines (or synthesizes) the estimate of 
treatment effect relative to the control from the NI trial with the estimate of the control effect 
from a meta-analysis of historical trials.  This method treats both sources of data as if they came 
from the same randomized trial, to project what the placebo effect would have been had the 
placebo been present in the NI trial.  The process makes use of the variability from both the NI 
trial and the historical trials and yields one confidence interval for testing the NI hypothesis that 
the treatment rules out loss of a prespecified fixed fraction of the control effect without actually 
specifying that control effect or a specific fixed NI margin based on the control effect.  In other 
words, the fraction M2/M1 of the control effect that is to be preserved in evaluating NI is 
specified in advance, but neither quantity (M1 or M2) is specified. 
 
The multiple steps involved and assumptions made in evaluating the NI hypothesis using either 
the fixed-margin or synthesis approach are all potential sources of uncertainty that may be 
introduced into the results and conclusions of an NI study.  In section IV.B, we attempt to 
identify these sources and suggest approaches to accounting for uncertainty to reduce the 
possibility of drawing false conclusions from an NI study.  Section IV.C provides further 
discussion of the statistical analysis methods for evaluating non-inferiority. 
 


--- Page 23 ---
 
20 
 
B. 
Statistical Uncertainties and Quantification of the Active Control Effect (M1) 
 
1. 
What Are the Sources of Uncertainty in an NI Study? 
 
The interpretation of an NI study depends on three linked critical conclusions: 
 
1. That there is reliable information about the effect the active control drug had in past 
studies   
2. That there is reason to believe the effect the active control drug has in the current NI 
study is similar to the effect observed in past studies 
3. That the NI study provides reliable information about the effect of the test drug relative to 
the comparator 
 
All three sources of information are subject to uncertainty.  For the first and third, the uncertainty 
is largely of a statistical nature, measured by standard errors (for the synthesis method) and 
confidence intervals (for the fixed margin method).  The second conclusion is subject to 
scientific uncertainty that is largely unquantifiable. 
 
The first source of uncertainty is the estimation of the effect of the active control in past studies. 
Particular problems arise when there is only a single historical study of the active control versus 
placebo because there is then no information about study-to-study variability; when there are 
multiple studies but substantial inconsistency in the estimates of the size of the effect among 
them; and when data from several pharmacologically related drugs are used to develop the 
estimate for the effect of the active control.  All three of these potential problems need to be 
considered when choosing M1. 
 
The second source of uncertainty is not statistically based but rather arises from the concern that 
the magnitude of effect estimated from past studies will be larger than the effect of the active 
control in the current NI study.  Assuming that the effect will be unchanged is often referred to 
as the “constancy assumption.”  If the assumption is incorrect and the magnitude of the effect in 
the current NI study is smaller than the estimated effect from historical studies, M1 will have 
been incorrectly chosen (too large) and an apparently successful study showing NI could have 
given an erroneous result.  Lack of constancy can occur for many reasons, including advances in 
adjunctive medical care, differences in the patient populations, or changes in the assessment of 
the endpoints under study.  As discussed in section IV.B.2.c, there is some experience to support 
the view that in cardiovascular outcome studies, the absolute size of the treatment effect is more 
likely to be variable and sensitive to the background rates in the control group than is the risk 
reduction.  The risk reduction may thus be a more constant measure of control drug effect than 
the absolute effect.  How to adjust the NI margin for concerns about constancy is inevitably a 
matter of judgment.   
 
The third source of uncertainty involves the risk of making a false conclusion based on the 
results of the test of the NI hypothesis in the NI study (i.e., concluding that C-T < M1 when it is 
not).  This uncertainty is referred to as the Type I error, or the false positive conclusion risk, and 
is similar to the concern in a placebo-controlled superiority trial that one might mistakenly 
conclude that a drug is more effective than placebo.  It is, in other words, present in any 


--- Page 24 ---
 
21 
 
hypothesis-testing situation.  In the NI case, the statistical test is intended to ensure that the 
difference between control and test drug (C-T, the degree of superiority of the control over the 
test drug) is smaller than the NI margin, meaning that some of the effect of the control is 
preserved (if C-T < M1) or that a sufficient amount is preserved (if C-T < M2).  Typically, the 
one-sided Type I error is set at 0.025 by asking that the upper bound of the 95% confidence 
interval for C-T be less than the NI margin; this is roughly similar to the usual statistical test of 
superiority in a placebo-controlled trial.  If only one NI study is going to be conducted, the 
probability of a Type I error can be made smaller by requiring that the upper bound of a 
confidence interval greater than 95% (e.g., 99%) be calculated and be less than the margin.  This 
approach is similar to what is a commonly done for a single placebo-controlled trial (e.g., testing 
at an alpha of 0.01 - 0.001 instead of 0.05).  As noted earlier, however, there may be prior 
information that eases this concern, and a single study at the usual Type I error boundary (0.025) 
may be considered sufficient if, for example, the drug and active control are pharmacologically 
similar.    
 
In the following subsections, we elaborate on the impact of the first two sources of uncertainty as 
well as the choice of margin to use in hypothesis testing.   
 
2. 
Quantification of the Active Control Effect 
 
Past controlled studies provide the empirical data for estimating the treatment effect of the active 
control.  The magnitude of that treatment effect, which will be the basis for determining the 
control drug effect that can be assumed to be present in the NI study, is critical to determining 
whether conducting an NI study is feasible.  If the active control has a small treatment effect, an 
effect only marginally distinguishable from placebo, or an inconsistent effect, an active 
controlled study designed to show non-inferiority is likely to require a very large sample size or 
may not be practical at all.   
 
The magnitude of the treatment effect of the active control may be determined in several ways, 
depending upon the amount of data and the number of separate studies of similar design 
available to support this determination.  Having many independent historical studies is generally 
more informative than having only one or two, because the estimate of the active control effect 
can be more precise and less subject to uncertainty, and because it becomes possible to judge the 
constancy of the effect for at least the time period spanned by the studies.   
 
a. 
Determining HESDE from a single study 
 
The most common situation in which an NI design is used to demonstrate effectiveness involves 
outcome studies where the active control drug has been approved for use to reduce the risk of 
major events (e.g., death, stroke, heart attack, continued infection, or tumor progression).  It is 
not unusual for such approval to have been based on a single study in a specific setting, although 
there may be other pertinent data in related conditions or in different populations, or with 
pharmacologically similar drugs.  Generally, basing an NI margin on a single randomized 
placebo-controlled superiority study would need to take into account the variability of the data in 
that study.  The estimate of the treatment effect is usually represented by some metric such as the 
difference between the event rate in the active treatment group and the placebo control group, 


--- Page 25 ---
 
22 
 
which can be a difference in event rates or a risk ratio.  The treatment effect has an uncertainty 
that is usually represented by the confidence interval.  The lower bound of the 95% confidence 
interval provides a conservative estimate of the effect the active control had in the historical 
study and can be assumed to have in a future NI study, recognizing the possibility that changes in 
practice could reduce the historical effect somewhat.  It is critical that a conservative estimate of 
the effect of the active control be used as the basis of the NI margin, because the logic of the NI 
study depends on the assumption that the active control has an effect at least equal to M1 in the 
NI study. 
 
If the p-value of the estimated treatment effect is much smaller than 0.05, for instance in the 
range of 0.01 or 0.001 or even smaller, the lower bound of the 95% confidence interval will 
generally be well above zero (in absolute value) or well below 1.0 (for hazard ratio and other risk 
estimates).  In this case, we are more certain that the treatment effect is real and that the effect of 
the control in the NI study will be of reasonable size.  
 
When there is only a single placebo-controlled trial of the active control, there is no objective 
assessment of study-to-study variability of the treatment effect and, inevitably, there is concern 
about the level of assurance we can have that the control will have an effect of a particular size in 
the NI study.  A potential cautious approach to account for this situation is to use the lower 
bound of a wider confidence interval, such as the 99% confidence interval.  This approach is 
possible where the effect is very large, but will often yield an M1 that necessitates a very large NI 
trial.  It may be reassuring in these cases if closely related drugs, or the control drug in closely 
related diseases, have similar effects.  A high level of internal consistency in subpopulations 
(e.g., if the effect of the control drug is similar in subgroups based on sex or age) could also 
provide some reassurance about the reproducibility of the result.  These findings might support 
use of the 95% confidence interval lower bound even if only a single study of the active control 
drug in the population is available for the NI trial.  
 
b. 
Determining HESDE from multiple trials 
 
Identical clinical trials in identical populations can produce different estimates of treatment effect 
by chance alone.  The extent to which two or more studies produce estimates of treatment effect 
that are close is a function of the sample size of each study, the similarity of the study 
populations, the conduct of the studies (e.g., dropout rates), and other factors that are probably 
not measurable.  Therefore, another source of uncertainty to be considered when choosing a 
margin for the current NI study is the study-to-study variability in the estimate of the active 
control treatment effect.   
 
Multiple studies of the active control relative to a placebo, ineffective treatment, or no treatment 
provide an opportunity to obtain not only an estimate of the average effect of the active control 
and its uncertainty, but also a measure of the study-to-study variability of the effect.  Study-to-
study variability in the active control effect is a critical consideration because one of the basic 
assumptions in NI studies is the consistency of the effect between the historical studies and the 
current NI study.   
 


--- Page 26 ---
 
23 
 
Several cases illustrate the use of multiple studies to estimate the active control effect and 
problems that can arise.  
 
• The ideal case is one where (1) there are a number of studies, each of sufficient size to 
demonstrate the effect of the active control and (2) the effects derived from these studies 
are reasonably consistent, so that an average effect derived from a meta-analysis provides 
a reasonable estimate of the control effect and supports a credible choice of M1. 
 
• If there are many small studies, some of which have not demonstrated an effect of the 
active control, it may still be possible to estimate the active control effect combining the 
studies using appropriate meta-analysis methods, but care should be taken if there is 
evidence of a large amount of study-to-study heterogeneity in the treatment effects. 
 
• If there are multiple large studies, it would be troublesome if one or more of the studies 
showed little or no effect.  Unless there is a convincing explanation as to why one of the 
studies did not demonstrate an effect, a failed study may argue against use of an NI design. 
 
• There are sometimes several trials of different drugs in the same pharmacologic class.  
Pooling them with appropriate meta-analytic methods may allow calculation of a 95% 
confidence interval that is narrower than that from any single study.  The presumption that 
the pharmacologically similar drugs would have similar effects may be reasonable, but 
care should be exercised in extending this assumption too far.  If the effects of these 
different drugs vary considerably in the trials, it may be reasonable to use the combined 
data to estimate the average effect with a meta-analysis and then select the drug with the 
largest effect (point estimate) as the active control in the NI study.  
 
When multiple studies of the active control are available, it is important to consider all studies 
and all patients when estimating the average effect.  Dropping a study that does not show an 
effect, unless there is a very good reason, can overestimate the control drug effect and give a 
falsely high M1.  As noted above, the existence of properly designed and sized studies that show 
no treatment effect of the active control may preclude conducting NI studies with that control 
unless there are valid reasons to explain the disparate results. 
 
When combining data from multiple studies to estimate the active control effect, some variation 
of effect is expected.  Random-effects meta-analysis can be used that allow for both between-
study and within-study heterogeneity.  Both frequentist and Bayesian methods are available that 
differ in the assumptions made about the distribution of the random effects.  These methods 
should be used to explore whether the variation between studies is more than would be expected 
by chance.  If so, the between-study variation should be taken into account and will result in a 
more conservative margin for the NI study. 
 
Examples 1 and 2 in the Appendix illustrate in more detail how multiple historical 
placebo-controlled trials of the active control are evaluated in designing an NI trial. 
 
c. 
Metrics 
 


--- Page 27 ---
 
24 
 
As previously discussed, the assumption of constancy of the effect of the active comparator 
between the historical studies and the NI study is crucial to a conclusion of efficacy based on 
non-inferiority.  There are, however, technical difficulties in defining what is meant by a 
constant effect across studies in different populations and at different times.  The mathematical 
way in which the treatment effect is formulated will affect the meaning and plausibility of the 
constancy assumption. 
 
Consider, for example, studies of fairly infrequent, binary outcomes, typical of most 
cardiovascular studies, a situation in which NI trials have been successfully employed.  Suppose 
the chance of an event in the placebo group of a historical study was p1, and in the active 
treatment group p2.  Then the treatment effect in the historical study can be expressed in several 
ways: 
 
1. The ratio p2/p1, called the relative risk or risk ratio 
2. The relative risk reduction 1 – p2/p1 
3. The odds ratio [p2/(1 – p2)]/[p1/(1 – p1)] 
4. The risk difference p1 – p2 
5. The number needed to treat (NNT), 1/(p1 – p2) 
 
If p1 and p2 vary across studies, they might nevertheless vary in such a way that p2/p1 is constant. 
For example, if p1 and p2 are 0.10 and 0.05 in one study, and 0.06 and 0.03 in another study, the 
ratio p2/p1 is 0.5 in both studies.  The relative risk reduction will then also be the same in both 
studies, and the odds ratio will be approximately the same.  The risk difference, however, is 0.05 
in one study and 0.03 in the other, and the numbers needed to treat are 20 and 33. 
 
In contrast, if two studies have different p1 and p2 but the same risk difference, they will have the 
same NNT but cannot have the same relative risk, relative risk reduction, or odds ratio.  Thus, 
the very definition of constancy depends on how the effect is formulated mathematically. 
Because the interpretation of a NI study relies crucially on the assumption of constancy, careful 
consideration must be given to the question of what, if anything, is likely to be constant across 
historical studies and between the historical studies and the NI study.  As noted, based on both 
experience and expectation, the constancy assumption for outcome studies has generally been 
based on expected constancy of relative and not absolute effects. 
 
The difference between expressing the treatment effect as the absolute difference between 
success rates in treatment groups and as the relative risk or risk ratio for success on the test 
treatment relative to the active comparator is illustrated in the following two examples. 
 
For the first example, consider a disease where the cure rate is at least 40% in patients receiving 
the selected active control and 30% for those on placebo, a 10% difference in cure rates.  If the 
purpose of an NI study is to demonstrate that the test product is effective (i.e., superior to a 
placebo), then the difference between the test product and active control in the NI study must be 
less than 10%.  The margin M1 would then be 10%.  If the additional clinical objective is to 
establish that the test product preserves at least half of the active control’s effect, then the cure 
rate of the test product must be shown to be less than 5% lower than the control, the M2 margin.   
 


--- Page 28 ---
 
25 
 
This approach requires that the control drug have an effect of at least 10% relative to placebo 
(had there been one) in the NI study.  If the population in the NI study did not have such a 
benefit (e.g., if the patients all had illnesses not susceptible to the test drug such that the benefit 
was less than 10%), then even if the 5% difference were ruled out, that would not demonstrate 
the desired effectiveness (although it would seem to).  Note that in this case, if the true effect of 
the control in the study were 8%, then ruling out a 5% difference would in fact show some effect 
of the test drug, just not the desired 50% of control effect. 
 
The second example illustrates a NI margin selected for the risk ratio (test/control) metric.  Let C 
and P represent the true rates of an undesirable outcome for the control and a placebo, 
respectively.  The control’s effect compared to placebo is expressed by the risk ratio, C/P.  A risk 
ratio of 1 represents no effect; a ratio of less than 1 shows an effect, a reduction in rate of 
undesirable outcomes. 
 
Metrics like the risk ratio may be less affected by variability in the event rates in a placebo group 
that would occur in a future study.  For example, a risk ratio for the event of interest of 3/4 =0.75 
can be derived from very different absolute failure rates from different studies, as shown in the 
table below.  While the risk ratio is similar in all four hypothetical studies, the absolute 
difference in failure rates ranges from 5% to 20%.  Suppose that the NI margin were based on 
historical studies showing control drug effects like those in the fourth study.  The NI margin 
(M1) would then be chosen as 20%.  Now suppose that under more modern circumstances the NI 
study had a control rate more like Study 1 and the size of the treatment effect compared to 
placebo is far less than 20%.  An NI margin (M1) of 20% would then be far greater than the drug 
effect in the NI study, and ruling out a difference of 20% would not demonstrate effectiveness at 
all.  Thus, if the NI margin were chosen as ruling out an inferiority of 33% (or a relative risk of 
1.33, i.e., 1 ÷ 0.75), and the control rate were 15%, the difference (M1) between test and control 
would need to be less than 5% (15% x 1.33 = 20%, or 5% > the 15% rate in the active control 
group). 
 
Study Number 
Risk Ratio (C/P) 
Control rate 
Placebo rate 
Study 1 
¾ 
15% 
20% 
Study 2 
¾ 
30% 
40% 
Study 3 
¾ 
45% 
60% 
Study 4 
¾ 
60% 
80% 
 
In this case, where absolute effect sizes vary but risk reductions are reasonably constant, the risk 
ratio metric provides a better adjustment to the lower event rate in the NI study. 
 
Revisiting the example from section III.E, it was clear in the placebo-controlled trials of 
streptokinase that the mortality rate in the placebo group was decreasing, so that even if the 
mortality reduction were constant as a relative reduction, the absolute reduction would decrease 
and the expected size of the treatment effect (M1) would no longer be an absolute 2.1% 
reduction.  The relative risk of mortality (ratio of mortality rates) was therefore used for 
subsequent thrombolytic product development programs because thrombolytic efficacy 
expressed as the relative mortality rates appeared to be more stable over time as improved 
standards of care were provided to all patients in a study.  


--- Page 29 ---
 
26 
 
  
For the development of tenecteplase in the treatment of AMI, evaluation of the relevant historical 
studies led to the conclusion that the comparator (90 minute infusion of alteplase) would reduce 
the relative risk of mortality compared to placebo by at least 0.22 (to about 0.78, upper limit of 
the relative risk confidence interval).  The NI margin was chosen, again based upon clinical 
judgment, so the new drug would retain at least half of the efficacy of the comparator (M1 = 
0.22), i.e., at least 0.11 (M2).  The relative mortality risk of tenecteplase compared to placebo 
should be not greater than 0.89.  This provided a value for the limit of the relative risk 
comparison of tenecteplase to alteplase of 1.14 ([tenecteplase/placebo]/[alteplase/placebo] = 
0.89/0.78), which had to be excluded by the 95% confidence interval (one-sided in this case) of 
the ratio of mortality rates in the NI study.  The ASSENT II study results provided a 95% one-
sided upper limit of relative risk of 1.104, which led to the marketing approval of tenecteplase. 
 
These examples illustrate the importance of understanding how a particular metric will perform.  
The choice between a relative metric (e.g., risk ratio) and an absolute metric (e.g., a difference in 
rates) in characterizing the effects of treatments may also be based upon clinical interpretation, 
medical context, and previous experience with the behavior of the rates of the outcome. 
 
d. 
Discounting 
 
One strategy employed in choosing the margin M1 for the NI study design is “discounting” or 
reducing the magnitude of the active control’s effect that is estimated from the HESDE analysis.  
Such discounting is done to account for the uncertainties in the assumptions that need to be made 
in estimating, based on past performance, the effect of the active control in the NI study.  This 
concept of discounting focuses on M1 determination and is distinct from a clinical judgment that 
the effect that can be lost on clinical grounds should be some fraction of M1 (i.e., M2).  As 
discussed above, there are uncertainties associated with translating the historical effect of the 
active control (HESDE) to the new situation of the active control NI trial, and it is tempting to 
deal with that uncertainty in the constancy assumption by discounting the effect (e.g., “take 
half”).  Rather than applying “automatic” discounting in choosing M1, concerns about the active 
control effect should, to the extent possible: 
 
• Be specific  
• Make use of available data (e.g., magnitude of possible differences in effect in different 
patient populations, consistency of past studies, and consistency within studies across 
population subsets)  
• Take into account factors that reduce the need for a conservative estimate, such as the 
pharmacologic similarity of the test and control drugs and pharmacodynamic effects of 
the new drug   
 
A closely related issue is the possible need for adjustment of M1 to reflect any differences that 
were observed between the population in the NI study and the historical study.  For example, a 
finding of a smaller effect in women than in men in the historical studies would need to be 
considered in assessing the validity of M1 if the NI study had a substantially greater proportion of 
women than the historical studies.  In general, the assessment of the historical data should 
identify differences in the outcomes for important subgroups so that the statistical analysis plan 


--- Page 30 ---
 
27 
 
for the NI study can be designed prospectively to take these factors into account (e.g., through 
covariate adjustments) or so that the value of M1 can be revisited in light of the baseline 
characteristics of the study population that was enrolled in the NI study. 
 
C. 
Fixed Margin and Synthesis Methods 
 
Conceptually, the conclusion of non-inferiority is a synthesis of information from the NI trial 
itself and the historical evidence that the comparator in that trial was effective.  The historical 
trials assessed Ch – P, the effect of the active control compared to placebo.  The NI trial assesses 
T – Cn , the effect of the test drug compared to active control.  If the outcome for the active 
control is constant across studies, then Cn = Ch, and the sum T – Cn + Ch – P = T – P represents 
the effect of the test drug compared to placebo.  The indispensable purpose of a NI trial is to 
show with high confidence that this effect is positive.  Additionally, NI trials are usually 
intended to estimate this effect, at least roughly, in comparison to the historical effect of the 
active control. 
 
The historical studies will furnish an estimate of Ch – P with an associated standard error SEH. 
Similarly, the NI study will estimate T – Cn with a standard error SEN.  The two estimates are 
independent, so that the standard error of the sum is given by 
 
ඥ𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝐻𝐻
2 + 𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑁𝑁
2 . 
 
Notwithstanding that the interpretation of an NI study is fundamentally a synthesis, we 
recommend a statistical method, the fixed-margin method, that treats the problem in two separate 
steps.  This approach offers two practical advantages.  First, it allows separation of the problem 
of calculating, justifying, and possibly adjusting the NI margins M1 and M2 from the problem of 
analyzing the NI study.  Second, it is equivalent to applying a somewhat larger standard error to 
the synthesized estimate, which can be seen as an allowance for the possibility of minor 
deviations from constancy. 
 
1. 
The Fixed Margin Approach  
 
The fixed margin approach to analysis in an NI trial is well known (see, e.g., ICH E9, section 
3.3.2).  This approach relies upon the choice of a fixed NI margin that is prespecified at the 
design stage of the NI trial and used to determine the sample size needed to provide sufficient 
power for a test of the hypothesis of non-inferiority.  Operationally, the fixed margin approach 
usually proceeds in the following manner.   
 
First, the active control effect is estimated from an analysis of past placebo-controlled studies of 
the active control (see section IV.B.2.a-b).  The goal of this analysis is to define the margin M1, a 
fixed value based on the past effect of the active control that is intended to be no larger than the 
effect the active control is expected to have in the NI study.  The variability of the treatment 
effects observed across past studies as well as the constancy assumption should be taken into 
account in choosing M1.   
 


--- Page 31 ---
 
28 
 
The selection of M2 is then based on clinical judgment regarding how much of the active 
comparator treatment effect needs to be retained to demonstrate sufficient benefit for drug 
approval.  The exercise of clinical judgment for the determination of M2 should be applied after 
the determination of M1 has been made.  All relevant studies of the active comparator and all 
randomized patients within these studies should generally be used in determining the margin M1 
because that provides a more reliable estimate of the active control effect and avoids any 
potential for prejudice in selecting which historical studies to include.  Determination of the 
relevance of past studies, however, may not be straightforward, and Examples 1(A) and 2 in the 
Appendix illustrate this point. 
 
The lower bound of the confidence interval of the estimated active control effect based on past 
studies is typically selected as M1.  Concerns about past variability and constancy may lead to a 
determination to discount this lower bound in choosing M1 to account for any sources of 
uncertainty and dissimilarities between the historical data and the NI study to be conducted, as 
discussed in earlier sections.  Following this, a clinical judgment is made as to how much of this 
effect should be preserved.  Choosing M2 as 50% of M1 has become usual practice for 
cardiovascular (CV) outcome studies, where effects may be small, and it is important to retain at 
least half of the effect of the original treatment.  In antibiotic trials, effects tend to be quite large 
relative to placebo or ineffective treatments, and as a result, a 10-15% NI margin for the 
treatment difference (M2) is commonly chosen.  Note that the M2 of 50% of M1 is on a relative 
scale, whereas the 10-15% is on the risk difference scale for antibiotic drugs.   
 
The formal test of the NI hypothesis also involves the use of a 95% confidence interval (i.e., to 
rule out C-T > M2).  Thus, there are two confidence intervals involved in the fixed margin 
approach, one for the historical data, where the lower bound is selected as M1, and one for the NI 
study (to rule out C-T > M2); both intervals are typically 95% confidence intervals.  That is why 
this fixed margin approach is sometimes called the 95%-95% method.   
 
Separating the process of estimating the treatment effect of the active comparator based upon the 
historical data (i.e., choice of M1) from the analysis of the NI study has two advantages.  It gives 
a single number that is clinically understandable for M1 (and derived M2) and provides a basis 
for planning the sample size of the NI study to achieve control of Type I error and the power 
needed for the NI study to meet its objective for the prespecified NI margin.  Decisions to 
discount M1 further or, where appropriate, to use a narrower confidence interval, are easily 
explained, and will make the fixed margin approach either more or less conservative.  
 
Deciding on the NI clinical margin M2 is a matter of judgment about how large a loss of the 
control treatment effect would be acceptable, a consideration that may reflect the seriousness of 
the outcome, the benefit of the active comparator, and the relative safety profiles of the test and 
comparator.  Choice of M2 also has major practical implications.  For example, in large 
cardiovascular studies, it is unusual to have an M2 that reflects a loss of less than 50% of the 
control drug effect, even if this might be clinically reasonable, because doing so will usually 
make the study size infeasible.  Of course, allowing too much inferiority of the test drug to the 
standard, especially for endpoints of mortality and serious morbidity, would clearly not be 
acceptable. 
 


--- Page 32 ---
 
29 
 
The fixed margin approach considers the NI margin as a single number, fixed in advance of the 
NI study.  The hypothesis tested in the NI study determines whether the comparison of the test 
drug to the active control meets the specified NI criterion, assuming, of course, that the active 
control had at least its expected effect (equal to M1) (that is, the study had assay sensitivity).  A 
successful NI conclusion, ruling out a difference > M1, shows that the test drug is effective (just 
as a superiority study showing a significant effect at p ≤ 0.05 does) and, if a difference > M2 is 
also ruled out, shows that the new drug preserves the desired fraction of the control drug’s effect.   
 
2. 
The Synthesis Approach  
 
An alternative statistical approach is known as the synthesis approach because it combines or 
synthesizes the data from the historical trials and the current NI trial, reflecting the variability in 
the two sources of data (the current NI study and the past studies used to determine HESDE).  
The synthesis method is designed to directly address the question of whether the test product 
would have been superior to a placebo had a placebo been in the NI study and also to address the 
related question of what fraction of the active control’s effect is maintained by the test product.  
In the synthesis approach, M1 is not prespecified, but the percent of active control effect to be 
preserved is prespecified.  Based on the observed outcome of the test drug vs. active control 
comparison in the NI study, an evaluation is made as to whether the test agent has demonstrated 
preservation of the clinically relevant effect of the active control, without determining M1.  
 
Although the synthesis approach combines the data from the historical trials into the comparison 
of the concurrent active control and the test drug in the NI study, a direct randomized concurrent 
comparison with a placebo is of course not possible, because the placebo group is not a 
concurrent control and there is no randomization to such a group within the NI study.  The 
imputed comparison with a placebo group that is not part of the NI study thus rests on the 
validity of several assumptions, just as the fixed margin approach does.  The critical assumption 
of the constancy of the active control effect derived from the historical placebo-controlled trials 
is just as important when the synthesis method is used as when the fixed margin method is used. 
 
The use of the synthesis approach can lead to a more efficiently designed study (e.g., by allowing 
for a reduction in sample size or achieving greater power for a given sample size) than the fixed 
margin approach, provided the constancy assumption holds.  The greater statistical efficiency of 
the synthesis approach derives from how this method deals with the standard error of the 
comparison of test product to active control.  See Appendix, Example 1(B), for a comparison of 
the two methods and the variance calculations.  
 
The synthesis approach does not specify a fixed NI margin.  Rather, the method combines (or 
synthesizes) the estimate of the treatment effect relative to the control from the NI trial with the 
estimate of the control effect from a meta-analysis of historical trials.  The synthesis process 
makes use of the variability from the NI trial and the historical trials and yields one confidence 
interval for testing the NI hypothesis that the treatment preserves a fixed fraction of the control 
effect, without actually specifying that control effect or a specific fixed NI margin based on the 
control effect.  Clinical judgment is used to prespecify an acceptable fraction of the control 
therapy’s effect that should be retained by the test drug, regardless of the magnitude of the 


--- Page 33 ---
 
30 
 
control effect.  The disadvantage of the synthesis approach is that it is not possible to use clinical 
judgment to choose M2, based on the magnitude of M1, in advance of the NI trial. 
 
D. 
Considerations for Selecting the Clinical Margin (M2) 
 
M2 is the prespecified NI margin that is to be ruled out in an NI study.  The determination of M2 
is based on clinical judgment and is usually calculated by taking a percentage or fraction of M1.  
The clinical judgment in determining M2 may take into account the actual disease incidence or 
prevalence and its impact on the practicality of sample sizes that would have to be accrued for a 
study, as noted above with respect to cardiovascular outcome studies.  There can be flexibility in 
selecting the M2 margin, choosing a wider margin, for example, when:   
 
1. The primary endpoint does not involve an irreversible outcome such as death (in general, 
the M2 margin will be more stringent when treatment failure results in an irreversible 
outcome)   
2. The test product is associated with fewer serious adverse effects or better tolerability than 
other therapies already available 
3. The test product has another advantage over available therapies that warrants use of a less 
stringent margin (M2) 
 
A more stringent choice for M2 may be required, however, when the difference between the 
active comparator response rate and the untreated response rate is large, making it feasible to 
demonstrate retention of a larger fraction of M1 without requiring an impractical sample size for 
the NI study. 
 
The implication of failing to rule out inferiority relative to M1 and M2 differs.  Failure to exclude 
inferiority relative to M1 means there is no assurance of any effect.  Just as it would be unusual to 
accept a placebo-controlled study as positive (i.e., a finding of superiority) with p > 0.05, it 
would be unusual to accept an NI study as positive (i.e., a finding of non-inferiority) where the 
upper bound of the 95% confidence interval was > M1.  On the other hand, failing to exclude M2 
by a small amount (e.g., ruling out a loss of 52% of M1 rather than a prespecified loss of 50% of 
M1) may be acceptable, as the small amount would not suggest the absence of an effect of the 
drug. 
 
E. 
Estimating the Sample Size  
 
It is important to plan the sample size for an NI clinical trial so that the trial will have adequate 
statistical power to conclude that the NI margin is ruled out if the test drug is truly non-inferior.  
At the protocol planning stage, using the fixed margin approach, the NI margin (M2) will be 
specified, and the sample size will be based on the need to rule out that margin.  Both the size of 
the margin and the estimated variance of the treatment effect (T vs C) will affect the sample size 
determination.  For event-driven trials, if the event rate in the NI study is lower than anticipated, 
power to demonstrate non-inferiority will be reduced.  It may be important, therefore, to monitor 
overall (blinded) event rates during the study and to adjust the sample size if the interim event 
rates are unexpectedly low, a practice that is common in superiority trials.  There is one further 
consideration in sample size planning.  If, in reality, the test drug is somewhat more effective 


--- Page 34 ---
 
31 
 
than the control, it will be easier to rule out any given NI margin than if the test drug is 
equivalent or slightly inferior to the control, and a smaller sample size could be used.  A 
somewhat less effective test drug will, of course, require a larger sample size. 
 
It may be difficult to adequately plan the sample size for any study, including an NI study, 
because of uncertainty about assumptions such as event rates or endpoint variability at the time 
of study planning.  For this reason, adaptive study designs that can allow for the prospective re-
estimation of a larger sample size at one or more planned interim looks may be considered.   
 
F. 
Study Quality and Choice of Analysis Population 
 
Traditionally, the primary analysis of a randomized clinical superiority trial follows the 
intention-to-treat (ITT) principle, namely, all randomized patients are analyzed according to the 
treatment to which they were randomized, including patients who leave the study prematurely.  
This approach is intended to avoid various biases associated with patients switching treatment or 
patients being excluded from the analysis because of protocol violations or attrition.  Adhering to 
the ITT principle in superiority trials is generally considered conservative, in that poor study 
quality resulting in a large number of protocol violations will tend to bias the results towards the 
null hypothesis of no difference between treatments.  The opposite is true for NI trials.  Quality 
issues could result in treatment groups appearing similar (i.e., biasing the results towards the 
alternative hypothesis for NI trials), when, in fact, the test drug may be inferior, as mentioned in 
section III.D.3.  Many problems that may cause a superiority trial to fail, such as non-adherence, 
misclassification of the primary endpoint, or attrition, can bias the results toward no treatment 
difference (success) and undermine the validity of the trial, creating apparent non-inferiority 
when the test drug is in fact inferior.  Imputation of missing data under the inferiority null 
hypothesis is one possible approach to countering the bias due to attrition. 
 
The best advice for conducting an NI study is to emphasize study quality at the planning stage 
and continuously monitor the trial during the conduct and analysis stages to minimize the 
problems described above.  If the NI trial is open label, attention to quality is all the more 
important because it may be very difficult to prove, after the fact, that enrollment, assessment of 
endpoints, and other study procedures were conducted in an unbiased way. 
 
G. 
Testing Non-Inferiority and Superiority in a Single Trial 
 
In general, when there is only one primary endpoint and one dose of the test treatment, a trial that 
is planned to demonstrate non-inferiority may also be used to test for superiority without concern 
about inflating the Type I error rate.  This sequential testing procedure has the Type I error rates 
for tests of both non-inferiority and superiority controlled at the 2.5% level.  A study designed 
primarily to show superiority, however, would yield credible evidence of non-inferiority only if 
the study had the key features of a NI study (e.g., the NI margin must be prespecified, and assay 
sensitivity and HESDE must be established).  An unplanned determination of non-inferiority 
following failure to show superiority, when the margin was not determined until results of the 
trial were known, would not be sufficient for demonstrating non-inferiority of the test drug. 
 


--- Page 35 ---
 
32 
 
When multiple endpoints or multiple doses of the test treatment are to be evaluated in an NI 
study that also includes a test for superiority, careful planning of the order in which hypothesis 
tests are to be carried out is needed.  For example, will superiority of the primary endpoint be 
tested before or after non-inferiority of a key secondary endpoint?  A decision tree can be helpful 
in determining whether adjustments for multiplicity are needed and to what tests they should be 
applied to ensure that adequate control of the Type I error rate is achieved for the trial.  In 
general, it would not be appropriate to apply 95% confidence intervals for multiple tests of non-
inferiority and superiority across multiple endpoints or multiple doses because of the potential to 
inflate the Type I error rate for the trial; use of larger intervals that reflect adjustment for 
multiple tests (e.g., 97.5% confidence intervals or higher) may be needed. 
V. 
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS AND GENERAL GUIDANCE 
 
1. Can a margin be defined when there are no historical placebo-controlled trials of the 
active control for the disease being assessed in the NI study? 
 
If the active control has shown superiority to other active treatments in the past, the 
difference demonstrated represents a conservative estimate of HESDE, one that can certainly 
serve as a basis for choosing M1.  It may also be possible that trials of the active control in 
related diseases are relevant.  The more difficult question is whether historical experience 
from nonconcurrently controlled trials can be used to define the NI margin.  The answer is 
that it can, but only in situations that meet the following three general criteria for assessing 
the persuasiveness of a historically controlled trial (see ICH E10).   
 
• First, there should be a good estimate of the historical untreated response rate or 
outcome without treatment.  Examination of medical literature and other sources of 
information may provide data upon which to base these estimates (e.g., historical 
information on natural history or the results of ineffective therapy).   
• Second, the cure rate of the active control should be estimated from historical 
experience, preferably from multiple experiences in various settings and possibly 
including observational studies.  
• Third, the untreated and treated patients should be comparable.  
 
Then, if the treated and untreated response rates are substantially different, it may be possible 
to determine a NI margin.  For example, if the spontaneous cure rate of a disease is 10-20% 
and the cure rate with an active control is 70-80%, these rates are substantially different and 
can be used to determine M1.  The clinically acceptable loss of this effect can then be 
determined for M2.  Some examples of margins determined in this way have been presented 
in guidance on antibiotic trials, e.g., trials in community-acquired bacterial pneumonia (see 
Example 4 in the Appendix).  Identifying a margin is more difficult when the difference 
between the spontaneous cure rate and active drug cure rate is smaller.  For example, if the 
historical spontaneous cure rate is 40% and the active control rate is 55%, identifying the NI 
margin in this case as 15% would not be reasonable because such a small difference could 
easily be the result of a different disease definition or ancillary therapy.  When the historical 
cure rates for the active control and the cure rate in patients who receive no treatment are not 
known at all from actual studies (i.e., are just based on clinical impressions), it will be 
difficult or impossible to define an NI margin.  


--- Page 36 ---
 
33 
 
 
2. Can the margin M2 be flexible? 
 
As discussed in detail in sections III and IV, there is a critical difference between 
demonstrating that the margins M1 and M2 have been met.  M1 is used to determine whether 
the NI study shows that the test drug has any effect at all.  Accepting a result in which the 
95% confidence interval did not rule out a loss of M1 or greater would be similar to accepting 
as evidence of effectiveness a superiority study whose estimated treatment effect was not 
significant at p ≤ 0.05.  M2, in contrast, represents clinical judgment about the amount of the 
active control effect that must be retained.  A typical value for M2 is often 50% of M1, at least 
partly because the sample sizes needed to retain a larger amount, e.g., 60% or more, of the 
active control effect become impractically large.  In this case, there is a better argument for 
some degree of flexibility if the study did not quite rule out the M2 margin; there might be 
reason to consider, for example, assurance of 48% retention as acceptable.  We have also 
concluded that the more conservative fixed margin method should generally be used in 
ensuring that M1 is ruled out, but that the synthesis method can be used to assess non-
inferiority with respect to M2.  Of course, allowing the test drug to be inferior to the standard 
by too large an amount, especially for endpoints of mortality and serious morbidity, would 
not be acceptable. 
 
3. Can prior information or other data (e.g., studies of related drugs, pharmacologic 
effects) be considered statistically in choosing the NI margins or in deciding whether the 
NI study has demonstrated its objective?  
 
Prior information can be incorporated into a statistical model or within a Bayesian 
framework to take into account such factors as evidence of effects in other related indications 
or on other endpoints.  As discussed in section IV.B.2.b, a meta-analysis is  often used to 
estimate the average effect of the active control for purposes of setting the NI margin, and in 
certain circumstances, trials from related indications or for other drugs in the same class may 
be included in the meta-analysis conducted for this purpose.  Some methods of meta-analysis 
allow the down-weighting of less relevant studies or studies that are not randomized or 
controlled (e.g., observational studies), which can be particularly important if few placebo-
controlled trials are available.   
 
Bayesian methods that incorporate historical information from past active control studies 
through the use of prior distributions of model parameters provide an alternative approach to 
evaluating non-inferiority in the NI trial itself.  Although discussed in the literature and used 
in other research settings, CDER and CBER have not had much experience to date in 
evaluating NI trials of new drugs or therapeutic biologics that make use of a Bayesian 
approach for design and analysis.  If a sponsor is planning to conduct a Bayesian NI trial, 
early discussions with the Agency are advised. 
 
If important covariates are distributed differently in the historical studies than in the current 
NI study, model-based approaches may be used to adjust for these covariates in the NI 
analysis.  Such covariates should be identified prior to the NI trial, and the methods for 
covariate adjustment should be specified prospectively in the NI trial protocol.  Applying 


--- Page 37 ---
 
34 
 
post-hoc adjustments developed at the time of analyzing the NI trial would not be 
appropriate.   
 
4. Can a drug product be used as the active comparator in a study designed to show non-
inferiority if the product’s labeling does not have the indication for the disease being 
studied, and could published reports in the literature be used to support a treatment 
effect of the active control?  
 
The active control does not have to be labeled or approved in the United States for the 
indication being studied in the NI study as long as there are adequate data that are reliable 
and reproducible to support the chosen NI margin.  FDA does, in some cases, rely on 
published literature and has done so in carrying out the meta-analyses of the effect of the 
active control that are used to define NI margins.  The FDA guidance, “Providing Clinical 
Evidence of Effectiveness,” describes the approach to considering the use of literature in 
providing evidence of effectiveness, and similar considerations would apply here.  Among 
these considerations are: 
 
• The quality of the publications (the level of detail provided)  
• The difficulty of assessing the endpoints used  
• Changes in practice between the present and the time of the studies  
• Whether FDA has reviewed some or all of the studies  
• Whether FDA and the sponsor have access to the original data   
 
As noted above, the endpoint for the NI study could be different (e.g., death, heart attack, and 
stroke) from the primary endpoint (cardiovascular death) in the studies if the alternative 
endpoint is well assessed and data on that endpoint are available for determining M1 (see also 
question 6). 
 
5. If the active control drug is approved for the indication that is being studied, does the 
margin need to be justified, or if the active control drug has been used as an active 
comparator in the past in another study of design similar to the current study and a 
margin has been justified previously, can one simply refer to the previous margin used? 
 
When an active control drug is approved for the same indication as that of the NI trial, the 
size of the effect appearing in the label of the active control is usually based on the pivotal 
trials rather than a meta-analysis of all past studies.  Further, the variability of the effect 
across past studies may not be available.  In general, approval of a drug is based on showing 
superiority to placebo, usually in at least two studies, but FDA may not have critically 
assessed whether the effect is consistent across past studies and may not have analyzed any 
“failed” studies.  It is therefore essential to use the data from all available controlled trials 
(unless a trial has a significant defect), including trials conducted after marketing, to 
calculate a reasonable estimate of the actual control effect.  If the active control data have 
been used to define the NI margin for another study of the same indication, and if a 
determination is made that the trials involved are relevant to the new trial, then use of the 
same margin in the new trial should be acceptable.  


--- Page 38 ---
 
35 
 
 
6. What factors should be considered when selecting an endpoint for a NI trial? 
 
The endpoints chosen for clinical trials (superiority or non-inferiority) should be clinically 
meaningful measures of the way patients feel, function, or survive that can be reliably 
assessed in the target population.  The endpoints generally reflect the event rate or other 
measure of disease in the population but also must take into account practical considerations, 
such as the size of the study required to demonstrate superiority or non-inferiority with 
respect to the endpoint.  In NI studies, the endpoint must be one for which there is a good 
basis for knowing the effect of the active control.  The endpoint need not necessarily be the 
endpoint used in the historical trials or the effectiveness endpoint appearing in labeling of the 
active control.  Past trials that were successful in showing an effect on a mortality endpoint 
could, for example, serve as the basis for estimating an effect on a composite endpoint 
(cardiovascular mortality, myocardial infarction, and stroke), if that were the desired 
endpoint for the NI study.  The use of a different endpoint in the NI study might be desirable 
because it would permit a smaller study, but it would be important not to include components 
that were not affected by the active control or did not represent an important clinical benefit. 
 
7. Are there circumstances where conducting an NI study may not be feasible? 
 
Unfortunately, these are several, including some where a placebo-controlled study would not 
be considered ethical.  Some examples include the following: 
 
• The treatment effect of the active comparator may be so small that the sample size 
required to conduct a NI study may not be feasible (unless the test drug is assumed to be 
superior).  
• There is large study-to-study variability in the treatment effect.  In this case, the treatment 
effect may not be sufficiently reproducible, calling into question the assumption of assay 
sensitivity.  This is often the case for symptomatic treatments (e.g., treatments for 
depression, anxiety, insomnia, angina, symptomatic heart failure, symptoms of irritable 
bowel disease, and pain). 
• There is no historical evidence available to determine a NI margin, and assuming a zero 
response rate for untreated patients is not reasonable. 
• Medical practice has changed so much (e.g., the active control is always used with 
additional drugs) that the effect of the active control in the historical studies is not 
relevant to the current study. 
 
8. In a situation where a placebo-controlled trial would be considered unethical, but a NI 
study cannot be performed, what are the options? 
 
In that case it may be possible to design a superiority study in an appropriate population that 
would be considered ethical.  Several possibilities are discussed in ICH E10 and include the 
following: 
 


--- Page 39 ---
 
36 
 
• When the new drug and an established treatment are pharmacologically distinct, an add-
on study where the test drug and placebo are each added to the established treatment. 
• A study in patients who do not respond to the established therapy.  It may be possible to 
conduct a placebo-controlled trial in these patients.  Alternatively, nonresponders could 
be randomly assigned to the test drug or the failed therapy, and superiority assessed to 
demonstrate effectiveness in the nonresponder population. 
• A study in patients who cannot tolerate the established effective therapy. 
• A study of a population for which there is no available effective therapy. 
• A dose-response study without placebo, if the new drug is known to have dose-related 
side effects, and a dose lower than the usual dose would be considered ethical. 
 
9. When can a single NI study be sufficient to support effectiveness?  
 
Several sections above touch on this question, notably section III.H, which discusses this 
issue in detail.  Briefly, reliance on a single study in the NI setting is based on considerations 
similar to reliance on a single study in the superiority setting, with the additional 
consideration of the stringency of showing non-inferiority using the M2 margin.  Many of 
these considerations are described in the FDA guidance, “Providing Clinical Evidence of 
Effectiveness”, and include supportive information, such as results with pharmacologically 
similar agents (a very common consideration, because the NI study will often compare drugs 
of the same pharmacologic class), support from credible biomarker information (tumor 
responses, ACE inhibition, beta blockade), and a statistically persuasive result from the 
single NI study.  With respect to the latter, it is noted above that a finding of NI based on 
excluding a treatment difference > M2 provides very strong evidence that the test treatment 
has an effect > 0 when M2 is substantially smaller than M1.  For all these reasons, most NI 
studies with mortality or serious morbidity as endpoints, if clearly successful, will be 
sufficient to demonstrate NI as single studies. 


--- Page 40 ---
 
37 
 
APPENDIX — EXAMPLES 
 
The following four examples derived from publicly available information (see references 
following examples) illustrate determination of the NI margin, application of methods of NI 
analysis, and other considerations relevant to determining whether it is possible to conduct and 
interpret the results of an NI study. 
 
Example 1(A):  Determination of an NI Margin for a New Anticoagulant — Fixed Margin 
Approach 
 
This example will demonstrate the following: 
 
• 
Determination of the NI margin (M1) using the fixed margin approach  
• 
How to select and assess the randomized trials of the active control on which to base the 
estimate of active control effect 
• 
How to assess whether the assumption of assay sensitivity is appropriate and whether the 
constancy assumption is reasonable for this drug class 
• 
The use of 95% confidence intervals for both margin determination and in the NI study for 
C-T to demonstrate non-inferiority, i.e., the 95% - 95% method 
 
SPORTIF V is an NI study that tested the novel anticoagulant ximelagatran against the active 
control warfarin.  Warfarin is a highly effective, orally active anticoagulant that is approved in 
the United States for the treatment of patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation at risk of 
thromboembolic complications (e.g., stroke, TIA).  There are six placebo-controlled studies of 
warfarin involving the treatment of patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, all published 
between the years 1989 and 1993.  The primary results of these studies are summarized in Table 
1 and provide the basis for choosing the NI margin for SPORTIF V.  
 
The point estimate of the event rate (ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes plus systemic embolic 
events) on warfarin compared to placebo is favorable to warfarin in each of the six studies.  The 
upper bound of the 95% confidence interval of the risk ratio calculated in each study is less than 
one in five of the six studies, indicating a significant treatment effect in favor of warfarin.  The 
one exception is the CAFA study.  However, this study was reportedly stopped early because of 
favorable results published from the AFASAK and SPAF I studies (Connolly et al. 1991).  
Although the CAFA study was stopped early, a step that can sometimes lead to an overestimate 
of effect, the data from this study appear relevant in characterizing the overall evidence of 
effectiveness of warfarin because there is no reason to think it was stopped for early success, 
which might have introduced a favorable bias.  These placebo-controlled studies of warfarin in 
patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation show a fairly consistent effect.  Based on the positive 
results from five of the six studies, it can reasonably be assumed that were placebo to be included 
in a warfarin-controlled NI study involving a novel anticoagulant, warfarin would have been 
superior to placebo.  
 


--- Page 41 ---
Contains Nonbinding Recommendations 
 
 
 
 
38 
 
Table 1.  Placebo-Controlled Trials of Warfarin in Nonvalvular Atrial Fibrillation 
Study 
Summary 
Events/Patient Years 
Risk Ratio (95% CI) 
Warfarin 
Placebo 
AFASAK 
open label. 1.2 yr follow-up 
9/413 = 2.18% 
21/398 = 5.28% 
0.41 (0.19, 0.89) 
BAATAF 
open label.  2.2 yr follow-up 
3/487 = 0.62% 
13/435 = 2.99% 
0.21 (0.06, 0.72) 
EAFT 
open label.  2.3 yr follow-up 
patients with recent TIA 
21/507 = 4.14% 
54/405 = 13.3% 
0.31 (0.19, 0.51) 
CAFA* 
double blind.  1.3 yr follow-up 
7/237 = 2.95% 
11/241 = 4.56% 
0.65 (0.26, 1.64) 
SPAF I 
open label.  1.3 yr follow-up 
8/260 = 3.08% 
20/244 = 8.20% 
0.38 (0.17, 0.84) 
SPINAF 
double blind.  1.7 yr follow-up 
9/489 = 1.84% 
24/483 = 4.97% 
0.37 (0.17, 0.79) 
* CAFA was stopped early because of favorable results observed in other studies. 
As can be seen from the summary table, most of these studies were open label.  It is not clear 
how great a concern this should be given the reasonably objective endpoints in the study (see 
Table 2), but to the extent there was judgment involved in assessing the endpoints, there may 
have been the potential for bias to be introduced.  The event rate for placebo in the EAFT study 
was strikingly high, perhaps because the patient population in that study was different from the 
patient population in the remaining five studies, in that only patients with a recent TIA or stroke 
were enrolled in EAFT.  That factor would clearly increase the event rate, but in fact the risk 
reduction in EAFT was very similar to the four trials other than CAFA, which is relatively 
reassuring with respect to constancy of risk reduction in various AF populations. 
Even if the historical studies are consistent, a critical consideration in deciding upon the NI 
margin is whether the constancy assumption is reasonable.  That is, we must consider whether 
the magnitude of the effect of warfarin relative to placebo in the previous studies would be 
present in the new NI study, or whether changes in medical practice (e.g., concomitant 
medications, skill at reaching the desired International Normalised Ratio (INR)), or changes in 
the population being studied may make the effect of warfarin estimated from the previous studies 
not relevant to the current NI study.   
 
To evaluate the plausibility of this constancy assumption, one might compare some features of 
the six placebo-controlled warfarin studies with the NI study, SPORTIF V.  There is 
considerable heterogeneity in the demographic characteristics of these studies.  While some 
characteristics can be compared across the studies (e.g., age, race, and target INR), some cannot 
(e.g., concomitant medication use, race, mean blood pressure at baseline) if they are not 
consistently reported in the study publications.  Whether these are critical to outcomes is the 
question.  Table 2 shows that for some characteristics, such as a history of stroke or TIA, there 
are some differences across the studies.  An important inclusion criterion in the EAFT study was 
that subjects have a prior history of stroke or TIA.  None of the other studies had such a 
requirement.  Subjects enrolled into the EAFT study were thus at higher risk than subjects in the 
other studies, presumably leading to the higher event rates in both the warfarin and placebo arms, 
shown in Table 1.  The higher event rates in the EAFT study may also have been influenced by 
the relatively long duration of follow-up or the fact that the primary endpoint definition was 
broader (including vascular deaths and nonfatal myocardial infarctions), or both.  Even with the 


--- Page 42 ---
 
39 
 
higher event rates observed in this one study, however, the risk ratios are quite consistent (with 
the exception of CAFA), a relatively reassuring outcome.   
 
Table 2.  Demographic Variables, Clinical Characteristics, and Endpoints of  
 Warfarin Atrial Fibrillation Studies 
 
AFASAK 
BAATAF 
CAFA 
SPAF 
VA  
EAFT 
SPORTIF V 
Age years 
(mean) 
73 
69 
68 
65 
67 
71 
72 
Sex (%) Male 
53% 
75% 
76% 
74% 
100% 
59% 
70% 
h/o stroke or 
TIA (%) 
6% 
3% 
3% 
8% 
0% 
100% 
18.3% 
h/o HTN (%) 
32% 
51% 
43% 
49% 
55% 
43% 
81% 
>65 years old 
& CAD (%)* 
8% 
10-16% 
12-15% 
7% 
17% 
7% 
41% 
>65 years old 
& DM (%)* 
7-10% 
14–16% 
10-14% 
13% 
17% 
12% 
19% 
h/o LV 
dysfunction 
(%)* 
50% 
24-28% 
20-23% 
9% 
31% 
8% 
39% 
Mean BP at 
BL (mm Hg) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
130/78 
NA 
145/84 
133/77 
Target INR 
2.8-4.2 
1.5-2.7 
2-3 
2-4.5 
1.4-2.8 
2.5-4.0 
2-3 
Primary 
endpoint 
Stroke, 
TIA, 
systemic 
embolism 
Ischemic 
stroke 
Ischemic 
stroke and 
systemic 
embolism 
Ischemic 
stroke and 
systemic 
embolism 
Ischemic 
stroke 
Vascular 
death, NF 
MI, stroke, 
systemic 
embolism 
Stroke (ischemic + 
hemorrhagic) and 
systemic embolism 
* = Not possible to verify whether definitions of CAD, DM, and LV dysfunction were the same in comparing the 
historic studies and SPORTIF V. 
NA = Not available 
 
To calculate M1, the relative risks in each of the six studies were combined using a random 
effects meta-analysis to give a point estimate of 0.361 for the relative risk with a confidence 
interval of (0.248, 0.527).  The 95% confidence interval upper bound of 0.527 represents a 47% 
risk reduction, which translates into a risk increase of about 90% from not being on warfarin 
(1/0.527 = 1.898) (i.e., what would be seen if the test drug had no effect).  Thus, M1 (in terms of 
the hazard ratio favoring the control to be ruled out) is 1.898.  
 
It was considered clinically important to show that the test drug preserved a substantial fraction 
of the warfarin effect.  The clinical margin M2 representing the largest acceptable level of 
inferiority was therefore set at 50% of M1.  M2 was calculated on the log hazard scale as 1.378, 
so that NI would be demonstrated provided the upper bound for the 95% confidence interval for 
C vs. T < 1.378.   
 
In the SPORTIF V study, the point estimate of the relative risk was 1.39, and the two-sided 95% 
confidence interval for the relative risk was (0.91, 2.12).  Thus, in this example, the non-
inferiority of ximelegatran to warfarin is not demonstrated because the upper limit (2.12) is 
greater than M2 (=1.378).  Indeed, it does not even demonstrate that M1 (=1.898) has been 
excluded.


--- Page 43 ---
 
40 
 
Example 1(B):  Application of the Synthesis Method to Example 1(A) 
 
This example demonstrates the following: 
 
• 
The critical features of the synthesis method for demonstrating non-inferiority of a new 
anticoagulant 
• 
The calculations and sources of statistical variability that are incorporated in the synthesis 
approach 
• 
The main differences in interpretation of results from the fixed margin and the synthesis 
approaches when applied to the same set of studies and data 
 
In this example, we illustrate the synthesis method using the same data as Example 1(A), which 
consist of six studies comparing warfarin to placebo and one NI study comparing ximelegatran to 
warfarin.  In contrast to the fixed margin method in Example 1(A), the synthesis method does not 
use a separate 95% confidence interval for this historical estimate of the effect of warfarin versus 
placebo and for the comparison in the NI study.  Rather, the synthesis method is constructed to 
address the questions of whether ximelegatran preserves a specified percent, in this case 50%  of 
the effect of warfarin, and whether ximelegatran would be superior to a placebo, if placebo had 
been included as a randomized treatment group in the NI study.  To accomplish this goal, the 
synthesis method makes a comparison of the effect of ximelegatran in the NI study to historical 
placebo data, an indirect comparison that is not based upon a randomized concurrent placebo 
group.  The synthesis method combines the data from the placebo-controlled studies of warfarin 
with the data from the NI study in such a way that a test of hypothesis is made to demonstrate 
that a certain percent of the effect of warfarin is retained in the NI study.  A critical point 
distinguishing the synthesis method from the fixed margin method is that the effect (M1) of 
warfarin is not specified in advance.  But to carry out the analysis, an assumption needs to be 
made regarding the placebo comparison, namely, that the difference between control drug and 
placebo (had there been one) in the NI trial is the same as that seen in the historical 
placebo-controlled trials of warfarin.  The assumption is needed because there is no randomized 
comparison of warfarin and placebo in the NI trial.  As a point of reference, we know from 
example 1(A) that the warfarin effect M1 was estimated from the historical placebo-controlled 
studies to be a 47% risk reduction. 
 
In this case, the synthesis method statistically tests the null hypothesis that the inferiority of 
ximelegatran compared to warfarin is less than 50% or one half of the risk reduction of warfarin 
compared to placebo, a question that the fixed margin method does not directly address because 
in the fixed margin method, the placebo is only present in the historical studies and not in the NI 
study.  We carry out this test on the log relative risk scale, so that the null hypothesis can be 
written as: 
 
 


--- Page 44 ---
 
41 
 
H0: {log-relative risk of ximelegatran versus warfarin} ≥ 
        − ½ {log-relative risk of warfarin versus placebo} 
A test of this hypothesis is performed by the expression below (the statistical test) that has the 
form of a quotient where the numerator is an estimate of the parameter defined in the null 
hypothesis by {log-relative risk of ximelegatran versus warfarin} + ½ {log-relative risk of 
warfarin versus placebo} and the denominator is an estimate of the standard error of the 
numerator.  In this case, the estimated log-relative risk of ximelegatran versus warfarin is 0.329 
(log of 1.39) with a standard error of 0.216 while the estimated log-relative risk of warfarin 
versus placebo is − 1.02 (log of .361) with a standard error of 0.154.  These estimates are 
combined, and the synthesis test statistic is calculated as: 
 
(
)
(
)
[
]
789
.0
154
.0
2
1
216
.0
02
.1
2
1
329
.0
2
2
−
=
+
−
+
 
 
Assuming the statistic is normally distributed, it is then compared to − 1.96 (for a one-sided 
Type I error rate of 0.025).  For this case, the value, − 0.789, is not less (more negative) than 
− 1.96, so we cannot reject the null hypothesis.  Therefore, it cannot be concluded that an NI 
margin of 50% retention is satisfied using the synthesis method. 
 
The fixed margin test statistic for this example is: 
 
(
)
(
)
618
.0
154
.0
2
1
216
.0
02
.1
2
1
329
.0
−
=
+
−
+
 
 
This value, -0.618, is also greater than -1.96.  Neither method leads to a conclusion of non-
inferiority for this example. 
 
 
 


--- Page 45 ---
 
42 
 
Example 2:  Aspirin to Prevent Death or Death/MI After Myocardial Infarction 
 
This example demonstrates the following: 
 
• 
When it may not be possible to determine the NI margin because of the limitations of the 
data available 
 
By 1993, the effect of aspirin in preventing death after myocardial infarction had been studied in 
six large randomized placebo-controlled clinical trials.  A seventh trial, ISIS-2, gave the drug 
during the first day after the AMI and is not included because it addressed a different question.  
The results are summarized and presented in Table 3. 
 
Table 3.  Results of Six Placebo-Controlled Randomized Studies of the Effect of Aspirin in 
Preventing Death After Myocardial Infarction 
 
Study 
Year 
published 
       Aspirin 
       Placebo 
Relative Risk (95% 
CI) 
    N 
Death rate 
    N 
Death rate 
 
MRC-1 
1974 
  615   8.0% 
  624 10.7% 
  0.74 (0.52, 1.05) 
CDP 
1976 
  758   5.8% 
  771   8.3% 
  0.70 (0.48, 1.01) 
MRC-2 
1979 
  832 12.2% 
  850 14.8% 
  0.83 (0.65, 1.05) 
GASP 
1978 
  317 10.1% 
  309 12.3% 
  0.82 (0.53, 1.28) 
PARIS 
1980 
  810 10.5% 
  406 12.8% 
  0.82 (0.59, 1.13) 
AMIS 
1980 
2267 10.9% 
2257   9.7% 
  1.12 (0.94, 1.33) 
 
The results suggest: 
 
1. The effect of aspirin on mortality as measured by the relative risk appears to diminish 
over the years in which the studies were conducted. 
2. The largest trial, AMIS, showed a numerically higher mortality rate in the aspirin-
treated group. 
 
The relative risk in the AMIS study is significantly different from the mean relative risk in the 
remaining studies (p ≤ 0.005).  The validity of pooling the results of AMIS with those of the 
remaining studies is therefore a concern.  It would be invalid to exclude AMIS from the meta-
analyses because the effect in AMIS differed from the effect in the remaining studies unless 
there were adequate clinical or scientific reasons for such exclusion.  At a minimum, any meta-
analysis of all studies would need to reflect this heterogeneity by using a random effects meta-
analysis.  
 
Although a fixed effects meta-analysis of the six studies gives a point estimate of 0.91 (95% 
confidence interval 0.82 to 1.02), the random-effects analysis gives a point estimate of 0.86 with 
95% confidence interval (0.69, 1.08).  The effect of aspirin on prevention of death after 
myocardial infarction in these historical studies is thus inconclusive (i.e., the upper bound of the 
95% confidence interval for effect is > 1.0).  Therefore, it is not possible to select aspirin as the 
active control for evaluating the mortality effect of a test drug in an NI trial.  Even if the upper 


--- Page 46 ---
 
43 
 
bound excluded 1.0, it would be difficult to rely on an NI margin that is not supported by AMIS, 
the largest of the six trials.   
 
The same six studies can also be examined for the combined endpoint of death plus AMI in 
patients with recent AMI.  This endpoint reflects the current physician-directed claim for aspirin 
based on the positive finding in two studies (MRC-2, PARIS). 
 
Table 4.  Results of Six Placebo-Controlled Randomized Studies of the Effect of Aspirin in 
Secondary Prevention of Death or MI After Myocardial Infarction 
 
Study 
Year 
published 
       Aspirin 
       Placebo 
Relative Risk (95% 
CI) 
    N 
Event 
rate* 
    N 
Event 
rate* 
 
MRC-1 
1974 
  615   9.9% 
  624 13.1% 
  0.75 (0.55, 1.03) 
CDP 
1976 
  758   9.5% 
  771 12.5% 
  0.76 (0.57, 1.02) 
MRC-2 
1979 
  832 16.0% 
  850 22.2% 
  0.72 (0.59, 0.88) 
GASP 
1978 
  317 13.6% 
  309 17.5% 
  0.78 (0.54, 1.12) 
PARIS 
1980 
  810 17.4% 
  406 22.7% 
  0.77 (0.61, 0.97) 
AMIS 
1980 
2267 18.6% 
2257 19.2% 
  0.97 (0.86, 1.09) 
*The event rates of both groups need further verification from each article. 
 
The results indicate that the effect of aspirin on death or MI after myocardial infarction is small 
to absent in the latest trial (AMIS).  Random effects meta-analyses give point estimates of the 
relative risk of approximately 0.8 with 95% confidence interval upper bounds of approximately 
1.0.  The NI margin based on these six studies is close to zero (without reducing it further to 
represent M2) and is so small that an NI trial would be unrealistically large.  Again, as with the 
mortality endpoint, it would be troubling even to consider an NI approach when the largest and 
most recent trial showed no significant effect.   
 
 
 


--- Page 47 ---
 
44 
 
Example 3:  Xeloda to Treat Metastatic Colorectal Cancer — the Synthesis Method  
 
This example of Xeloda for first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer illustrates:  
 
• 
The use of the synthesis method to demonstrate a loss of no more than 50% of the historical 
control treatment’s effect and a relaxation of this criterion when two NI studies are available 
• 
The use of additional endpoints in the decision-making process 
• 
The use of a conservative estimate of the active control effect because (1) a subset of the 
available studies to estimate the margin was selected and (2) the effect was measured 
relative to a previous standard of care instead of placebo   
 
The U.S. regulatory standard for first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer, the use 
sought for Xeloda, is the demonstration of improvement in overall survival.  Two separate 
clinical trials, each using an NI study design, compared Xeloda to a Mayo Clinic regimen of 5-
fluorouracil with leucovorin (5-FU+LV), the standard of care at the time.  Xeloda is an oral 
fluoropyrimidine, while 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is an infusional fluoropyrimidine. 
 
By itself, bolus 5-FU had not demonstrated a survival advantage in first-line treatment of 
metastatic colorectal cancer.  But with the addition of leucovorin to bolus 5-FU, the combination 
had demonstrated improved survival.  A systematic evaluation of approximately 30 studies that 
investigated the effect of adding leucovorin to a regimen of 5-FU identified 10 clinical trials that 
compared a regimen of 5-FU+LV similar to the Mayo Clinic regimen to 5-FU alone, thereby 
providing a measure of the effect of LV added to 5-FU — a conservative estimate of the overall 
effect of 5-FU+LV as it is likely 5-FU has some effect. 
 
Table 5 summarizes the overall survival results, using the metric “log hazard ratio” for the 10 
studies identified that addressed the comparison of interest. 
 
 Table 5.  Selected Studies Comparing 5-FU to 5-FU+LV 
Study 
Hazard Ratio1 
Log Hazard Ratio1 
Standard Error 
Historical Study 1 
1.35 
.301 
.232 
Historical Study 2 
1.26 
.235 
.188 
Historical Study 3 
0.78 
-.253 
.171 
Historical Study 4 
1.15 
.143 
.153 
Historical Study 5 
1.39 
.329 
.185 
Historical Study 6 
1.35 
.300 
.184 
Historical Study 7 
1.38 
.324 
.166 
Historical Study 8 
1.34 
.294 
.126 
Historical Study 9 
1.03 
.0296 
.165 
Historical Study 10 
1.95 
.670  
.172 
1 All log hazard ratios are 5-FU/5-FU+LV 
 
A random effects model applied to the survival results of these 10 studies yielded the historical 
estimate of the 5-FU versus 5-FU+LV survival comparison of a hazard ratio of 1.264 with a 95% 


--- Page 48 ---
 
45 
 
confidence interval of (1.09, 1.46) and a log hazard ratio of 0.234.  The NI margin is therefore 
1.09 for a fixed margin approach ruling out M1.  
 
A summary of the survival results based on the intent-to-treat populations for each of the two 
Xeloda NI trials is presented in Table 6.  Study 2 rules out M1 using a fixed margin approach, but 
Study 1 does not. 
 
Table 6.  Summary of the Survival Results  
Study 
Hazard 
Ratio1 
Log 
Hazard 
Ratio1 
Standard 
Error 
95% 
confidence 
interval for the 
Hazard Ratio1 
NI Study 1 1.00 
-0.0036 
0.0868 
(0.84, 1.18) 
NI Study 2 0.92 
-0.0844 
0.0867 
(0.78, 1.09) 
1 Hazard ratios and log hazard ratios are Xeloda/5-FU+LV 
 
The clinical choice of how much of the effect on survival of 5-FU+LV should be retained by 
Xeloda was determined to be 50%.  The synthesis approach was used to analyze whether the NI 
criteria of 50% loss was met.  This synthesis approach for each study combines the results of that 
NI study with the results from the random effects meta-analysis to produce a normalized test 
statistic. 
 
Based on this NI synthesis test procedure, NI Study 1 failed to demonstrate that Xeloda retained 
at least 50% of the historical effect of 5-FU+LV versus 5-FU on overall survival, but NI Study 2 
did demonstrate such an effect.  It was then decided to determine what percent retention was 
demonstrated.  By adapting the synthesis test procedure for retention of an arbitrary percent of 
the 5-FU+LV historical effect, it was determined that NI Study 1 demonstrated that Xeloda lost 
no more than 90% of the historical effect of 5-FU+LV on overall survival and that NI Study 2 
demonstrated no more than a 39% loss of the historical effect. 
 
The evidence of effectiveness of Xeloda was supported by the observation that the tumor 
response rates were statistically significantly greater for the Xeloda arm and the fact that Xeloda 
and 5-FU were structurally and pharmacologically very similar.   
 
 
 


--- Page 49 ---
 
46 
 
Example 4:  Determination of an NI margin for Community-Acquired Bacterial 
Pneumonia (CABP) When No Historical Trials Are Available 
 
This example illustrates the following points: 
 
• The use of risk differences as the metric for estimated treatment effects 
• The determination of the NI margin using observational data when no randomized, 
placebo-controlled trials of active control drugs are available  
 
Community-acquired bacterial pneumonia (CABP) is an acute bacterial infection of the 
pulmonary parenchyma associated with chest pain, cough, sputum production, difficulty 
breathing, chills, rigors, fever, or hypotension, and is accompanied by the presence of a new 
lobar or multi-lobar infiltrate on a chest radiograph.  FDA issued revised draft guidance for 
developing treatments of CAPB in 2014, and the appendix in that guidance describes in detail the 
justification for NI margins with respect to two endpoints:  clinical response and mortality.3   
Historical data from nonrandomized studies of bacteremic and nonbacteremic patients with 
pneumococcal or lobar pneumonia were evaluated to justify NI margins for use in future CABP 
studies.  For the clinical response endpoint, historical data are relied upon not only to determine 
an acceptable NI margin but also to decide the time point following treatment at which non-
inferiority should be assessed.  For the mortality endpoint, margin determination is more 
straightforward and provided here for illustration.  
 
An area of uncertainty in evaluating historical data is the spectrum of bacterial pathogens that 
cause CABP today.  In most of the historical studies, CABP was considered synonymous with 
pneumococcal pneumonia because S. pneumoniae was regularly identified.  CABP is also caused 
by other pathogens such as H. influenzae, H. parainfluenzae, S. aureus, and M. catarrhalis, as 
well as atypical bacteria such as M. pneumoniae, C. pneumoniae, and Legionella species.  A 
fundamental assumption is that historical response rates in infections such as S. pneumoniae 
CABP are relevant to response rates in modern infections with sensitive organisms. 
 
Table 7 provides an overview of the historical studies available for estimation of mortality rates 
among both treated and untreated patients with pneumococcal pneumonia.  In all of the studies, a 
significant mortality benefit was shown for patients treated with antibacterial drugs (including 
sulfonamides, penicillin, and tetracyclines) compared to patients who received no specific 
therapy (untreated).  
 
 
3 See the revised draft guidance for industry Community-Acquired Bacterial Pneumonia:  Developing Drugs for 
Treatment.  When final, this guidance will represent the FDA’s current thinking on this topic.   


--- Page 50 ---
 
47 
 
Table 7.  Mortality in Observational Studies of Pneumococcal Pneumonia 
Publication  
Population  
Mortality (%):  
Untreated 
Patients 
(Study Years)  
Mortality (%):  
Antibacterial-
Treated Patients 
(Study Years) 
Treatment Difference 
Untreated-Treated 
(95% CI)  
Finland (1943)  
≥ 12 years old  
bacteremic and 
nonbacteremic  
N=2,832  
(1929-1940)*  
41%  
N=1,220  
(1939-1941)  
17% (sulfonamides)  
24% (21%, 27%)  
Dowling and 
Lepper (1951) 
≥ 10 years old  
bacteremic and 
nonbacteremic  
N=1,087  
(1939, 1940)*  
30.5%  
N=1,274  
(1938-1950)  
12.3% (sulfonamides)  
N=920  
(1938-1950)  
5.1%  
(penicillins and 
tetracyclines)  
18.2% (15%, 21%)  
 
 
25.4% (22%, 28%)  
Austrian and 
Gold (1964) 
≥ 12 years old  
bacteremic  
N=17  
(1952-1962)  
82%  
N=437  
(1952-1962)  
17%  
65% (41%, 79%)  
* Historical control patients 
 
There are two limitations in the use of these data to determine an NI margin.  First, only 
observational data are presented, and second, no recent studies were available, with the most 
recent dating to the 1960s.  Significant improvements in the standard of care and the availability 
of better treatment options for patients with CABP compared to the preantibiotic era bring into 
question the relevance of these historical studies in estimating an active control effect with 
respect to mortality.  In spite of these limitations, the mortality rates among the treated patient 
cohorts are reasonably consistent, ranging from 5% to 17% across the three decades represented.   
Mortality rates in the untreated cohorts are more variable.  The older references provide 
estimates of 31% and 41%, while the more recent study gives an estimated mortality rate of 82%, 
but this estimate is based on a very small sample size (n=17).   
 
In the absence of any placebo-controlled trials of active control drugs in this disease area, it is 
not possible to estimate M1 using the methods advocated in this guidance document (e.g., the 
95%-95% method), but it is clear that the untreated mortality is substantial.  Thus, based on the 
historical evidence described above, with the caveats noted about the nature and age of the 
studies, it is reasonable to assume that the mortality rate due to CABP, if left untreated, will be 
substantially higher than the rates observed among the treated cohorts.  Use of an NI margin 
(M2) of approximately 10% is therefore a valid approach for evaluating new treatments of CABP 
and would clearly represent an effect superior to no treatment as well as, based on clinical 
judgment, an appropriate clinical margin.  
 
 


--- Page 51 ---
 
48 
 
REFERENCES FOR EXAMPLES 
 
 
Example 1(A and B) 
The Boston Area Anticoagulation Trial for Atrial Fibrillation Investigators (1990).  “The Effect 
of Low-Dose Warfarin on the Risk of Stroke in Patients with Nonrheumatic Atrial 
Fibrillation.”  New Engl J Med 323, 1505-1511. 
 
Connolly, S.J., Laupacis, A., Gent, M., Roberts, R.S., Cairns, J.A., Joyner, C. (1991). “Canadian 
Atrial Fibrillation Anticoagulation (CAFA) Study.”  J Am Coll Cardiol 18, 349-355. 
 
EAFT (European Atrial Fibrillation Trial) Study Group (1993).  “Secondary Prevention in Non-
Rheumatic Atrial Fibrillation After Transient Ischemic Attack or Minor Stroke.”  
Lancet 342, 1255-1262. 
 
Ezekowitz, M.D., Bridgers, S.L., James, K.E., Carliner, N.H., et al. (1992).  “Warfarin in the 
Prevention of Stroke Associated with Nonrheumatic Atrial Fibrillation.”  N Engl J Med 327, 
1406-1412. 
 
Food and Drug Administration, Dockets home page.  Available at: 
http://www.fda.gov/ohrms/dockets/AC/04/briefing/2004-4069B1_07_FDA-Backgrounder-C-R-
stat%20Review.pdf. 
 
Halperin, J.L., Executive Steering Committee, SPORTIF III and V Study Investigators (2003).  
“Ximelagatran Compared with Warfarin for Prevention of Thromboembolism in Patients with 
Nonvalvular Atrial Fibrillation:  Rationale, Objectives, and Design of a Pair of Clinical Studies 
and Baseline Patient Characteristics (SPORTIF III and V).”  Am Heart J 146, 431-438. 
 
Jackson, K., Gersh, B.J., Stockbridge, N., Fleming, T.R., Temple, R., Califf, R.M.,  
Connolly, S.J., Wallentin, L., Granger, C.B. (2005).  Participants in the Duke Clinical Research 
Institute/American Heart Journal Expert Meeting on Antithrombotic Drug Development for 
Atrial Fibrillation (2008).  “Antithrombotic Drug Development for Atrial Fibrillation:  
Proceedings.”  Washington, D.C., July 25-27, 2005. American Heart Journal 155, 829-839. 
 
Petersen, P., Boysen, G., Godtfredsen, J., Andersen, E.D., Andersen, B. (1989).  
“Placebo-controlled, Randomised Trial of Warfarin and Aspirin for Prevention of 
Thromboembolic Complications in Chronic Atrial Fibrillation.”  The Lancet 338, 175-179. 
 
Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation Investigators (1991).  “Stroke Prevention in Atrial 
Fibrillation Study:  Final Results.”  Circulation 84, 527-539. 
 
Example 2 
Aspirin Myocardial Infarction Study Research Group (1980).  “A Randomized Controlled Trial 
of Aspirin in Persons Recovered from Myocardial Infarction.”  JAMA 243, 661-669. 
 


--- Page 52 ---
 
49 
 
Breddin, K., Loew, D., Lechner, K., Uberia, E.W. (1979).  “Secondary Prevention of Myocardial 
Infarction.  Comparison of Acetylsalicylic Acid, Phenprocoumon and Placebo. A Multicenter 
Two-Year Prospective Study.”  Thrombosis and Haemostasis 41, 225-236. 
 
Coronary Drug Project Group (1976).  “Aspirin in Coronary Heart Disease.”  Journal of Chronic 
Disease 29, 625-642. 
 
Elwood, P.C., Cochrane, A.L., Burr, M.L., Sweetnam, P.M., Williams, G., Welsby, E., Hughes, 
S.J., Renton, R.  (1974).  “A Randomized Controlled Trial of Acetyl Salicylic Acid in the 
Secondary Prevention of Mortality from Myocardial Infarction.”  British Medical Journal 1, 
436-440. 
 
Elwood, P.C., Sweetnam, P.M. (1979).  “Aspirin and Secondary Mortality After Myocardial 
Infarction.”  Lancet ii, 1313-1215. 
 
Fleiss, J.L. (1993).  “The Statistical Basis of Meta-Analysis.”  Statistical Methods in Medical 
Research 2,121-145. 
 
ISIS-2 Collaborative Group (1988).  “Randomized Trial of Intravenous Streptokinase, Oral 
Aspirin, Both, or Neither Among 17187 Cases of Suspected Acute Myocardial Infarction: ISIS-
2.”  Lancet 2, 349-360. 
 
Persantine-Aspirin Reinfarction Study Research Group (1980).  “Persantine and Aspirin in 
Coronary Heart Disease.”  Circulation 62, 449-461. 
 
Example 3 
FDA Guidance for Industry:  Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee Discussion on FDA 
Requirements for the Approval of New Drugs for Treatment of Colon and Rectal Cancer. 
 
FDA Medical-Statistical Review for Xeloda (NDA 20-896) dated April 23, 2001.  
http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/nda/2001/20896s6_Xeloda_Medr_Statr_P2.pdf. 
 
Example 4 
FDA Draft Guidance for Industry (Revision 2): Community-Acquired Bacterial Pneumonia: 
Developing Antimicrobial Drugs for Treatment, January 2014. 
 
Singer, M., Nambiar, S., Valappil, T., Higgins, K., and Gitterman, S. (2008).  “Historical and 
Regulatory Perspectives on the Treatment Effect of Antibacterial Drugs for Community-Acquired 
Pneumonia.” Clin Infect Dis 47 (Suppl 3), S216-S224. 
 
Finland, M. (1943).  “Chemotherapy in the Bacteremia.”  Conn State Med J 7, 92-100. 
 
Dowling, H.G., and Lepper, M.H. (1951).  “The Effect of Antibiotics (Penicillin, Aureomycin 
and Terramycin) on the Fatality Rate and Incidence of Complications in Pneumococcic 
Pneumonia:  A Comparison With Other Methods of Therapy.” AM J Med Sci 222, 396-402. 
 


--- Page 53 ---
 
50 
 
Austrian, R., and Gold, J. (1964).  “Pneumococcal Bacteremia With Especial Reference to 
Bacteremic Pneumococcal Pneumonia.” Ann Intern Med 60, 759-776. 
 
 


--- Page 54 ---
 
51 
 
REFERENCES 
 
General 
Blackwelder, W.C. (1982).  “Proving the Null Hypothesis in Clinical Trials.” Controlled Clinical 
Trials 3, 345-353. 
 
Blackwelder, W.C. (2002).  “Showing a Treatment Is Good Because It Is Not Bad:  When Does 
‘Noninferiority’ Imply Effectiveness?”  Control Clinical Trials 23, 52–54. 
 
Chow, S.C., Shao, J. (2006).  “On Non-Inferiority Margin and Statistical Tests in Active Control 
Trial.”  Statistics in Medicine 25, 1101–1113. 
 
D’Agostino, R.B., Campbell, M., Greenhouse, J. (2005).  “Non-Inferiority Trials:  Continued 
Advancements in Concepts and Methodology.”  Statistics in Medicine 25, 1097-1099. 
 
Fleming, T.R. (2008). “Current Issues in Non-inferiority Trials.”  Statistics in Medicine 27, 317-
332. 
 
Fleming, T.R. (2011). “Some Essential Considerations in the Design and Conduct of Non-
inferiority Trials.” Clinical Trials 8, 432-439. 
 
Hauschke, D., Pigeot, I. (2005).  “Establishing Efficacy of a New Experimental Treatment in the 
‘Gold Standard’ Design (with discussions).”  Biometrical Journal 47, 782-798. 
 
Koch, G.G. (2008).  “Comments on ‘Current Issues in Non-Inferiority Trials.’” Statistics in 
Medicine 27, 333-342. 
 
Peterson, P., Carroll, K., Chuang-Stein, C., Ho, Y-Y., Jiang, Q., Gang, L., Sanchez, M., Sax, R., 
Wang, Y-C., Snapinn, S. (2010).  “PISC Expert Team White Paper: Toward a Consistent 
Standard of Evidence When Evaluating the Efficacy of an Experimental Treatment From a 
Randomized Active-Controlled Trial.”  Statistics in Biopharmaceutical Research 2, 522-531. 
 
Rothmann, M., Li, N., Chen, G., Chi, G.Y.H., Temple, R.T., Tsou, H.H. (2003).  “Non-
inferiority Methods for Mortality Trials.”  Statistics in Medicine 22, 239-264. 
 
Snapinn, S.M., Jiang, Q. (2013). “Remaining Challenges in Assessing Non-inferiority.” 
Therapeutic Innovation & Regulatory Science 48(1), 62-67. 
 
Regulatory 
Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products (CPMP)(2001). Points to Consider on Switching 
between Superiority and Non-Inferiority. Br J Clin Pharmacol 52, 223-228. 
 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) (2006). “Guideline on the Choice of 
the Non-Inferiority Margin.”  Statistics in Medicine 25, 1628–1638. 
 


--- Page 55 ---
 
52 
 
Ellenberg, S.S., Temple, R. (2000).  “Placebo-Controlled Trials and Active-Control Trials in the 
Evaluation of New Treatments - Part 2:  Practical Issues and Specific Cases.”  Annals of Internal 
Medicine 133, 464-470.  
 
Huitfeldt, B., Hummel, J., on behalf of European Federation of Statisticians in the 
Pharmaceutical Industry (EFSPI) (2011). “The Draft FDA Guideline on Non-Inferiority Clinical 
Trials: A Critical Review From European Pharmaceutical Industry Statisticians.” 
Pharmaceutical Statistics 10, 414-419. 
 
Hung, H.M.J., Wang, S.J., O’Neill, R.T. (2005).  “A Regulatory Perspective on Choice of 
Margin and Statistical Inference Issue in Non-Inferiority Trials.”  Biometrical Journal 47, 28-36. 
 
International Conference on Harmonisation:  Statistical Principles for Clinical Trials (ICH E-9), 
Food and Drug Administration, DHHS, 1998. 
 
International Conference on Harmonisation:  Choice of Control Group and Related Issues in 
Clinical Trials (ICH E10), Food and Drug Administration, DHHS, July 2000. 
 
Temple, R., Ellenberg, S.S. (2000).  “Placebo-Controlled Trials and Active-Control Trials in the 
Evaluation of New Treatments - Part 1: Ethical and Scientific Issues.”  Annals of Internal 
Medicine 133, 455-463.  
 
Synthesis Methods 
Brittain,  E.H., Fay,  M.P., Follmann, D.A. (2012). A valid formulation of the analysis of non-
inferiority trials under random effects meta-analysis. Biostatistics 13, 637-649. 
 
Hasselblad, V., Kong, D.F. (2001).  “Statistical Methods for Comparison to Placebo in Active-
Control Trials.”  Drug Information Journal 35, 435-449. 
 
Rothmann, M.D., Wiens, B.L., and Chan, S.F. (2012). Design and Analysis of Non-Inferiority 
Trials (Chapter 5.3). Boca Raton, FL:Taylor and Francis Group. 
 
Meta-analysis  
DerSimonian, R., Laird, N. (1986).  “Meta-Analysis in Clinical Trials.”  Controlled Clinical 
Trials 7, 177-188. 
 
Follmann, D.A., Proschan, M.A. (1999).  “Validity Inference in Random-Effects Meta-
Analysis.”  Biometrics 55, 732-737. 
 
Muthukumarna, S. and Tiwari, R.C. (2012).  “Meta-analysis Using Dirichlet Process.”  
Statistical Methods in Medical Research D0I: 10.1177/0962280212453891. 
 
Bayesian Approaches 
Gamalo, M., Tiwari, R.C., LaVange, L.M. (2014). “Bayesian Approach to the Design and 
Analysis of Non-inferiority Trials for Anti-infective Products.”  Pharmaceutical Statistics 13(1), 
25-40. 


--- Page 56 ---
 
53 
 
 
Simon, R. (1999).  “Bayesian Design and Analysis of Active Control Clinical Trials.”  
Biometrics 55, 484-487. 
 
Study Quality and Analysis Population 
Brittain, E., Lin, D. (2005). “A Comparison of Intent-to-Treat and Per Protocol Results in 
Antibiotic Non-Inferiority Trials.”  Statistics in Medicine  24, 1-10. 
 
Sanchez, M.M., Chen, X. (2006).  “Choosing the Analysis Population in Non-Inferiority Studies:  
Per Protocol or Intent-to-Treat.”  Statistics in Medicine  25, 1169-1181. 
 
In-Text Examples 
Retavase (reteplase) label available on the Internet at: 
https://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/archives/fdaDrugInfo.cfm?archiveid=13948 
 
Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study Group (1994).  “Randomized Trial of Cholesterol 
Lowering in 4444 Patients with Coronary Heart Disease:  The Scandinavian Simvastatin 
Survival Study (4S).”  Lancet 344,1383-1389. 
 
Shepherd J., Cobbe S.M., Ford L., Isles C.G., Lorimer A.R., Macfarlane P.W., McKillop J.H., 
Packard C.J., for the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Group (1995). “Prevention of 
Coronary Heart Disease with Pravastatin in Men with Hypercholesterolemia.”   N Engl J Med 
333,1301-7. 
 
Downs J.R., Clearfield M., Weis S.,Whitney E., Shapiro D.R., Beere P.A., Langendorfer A., 
Stein E.A., Kruyer W., Gotto A.M., for the AFCAPS/TexCAPS Research Group 
(1998). “Primary Prevention of Acute Coronary Events with Lovastatin in Men and Women with 
Average Cholesterol Levels.” JAMA 279(20), 1615-1622. 
