
--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL FOR HARMONISATION OF TECHNICAL  
REQUIREMENTS FOR PHARMACEUTICALS FOR HUMAN USE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ICH HARMONISED GUIDELINE 
 
 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES FOR PLANNING AND DESIGN OF 
MULTI-REGIONAL CLINICAL TRIALS 
E17  
 
 
Final version  
Adopted on 16 November 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Guideline has been developed by the appropriate ICH Expert Working Group and 
has been subject to consultation by the regulatory parties, in accordance with the ICH 
Process.  At Step 4 of the Process the final draft is recommended for adoption to the 
regulatory bodies of ICH regions. 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
 
E17 
Document History 
 
Code 
History 
Date 
E17 
Endorsement by the Members of the ICH Assembly un-
der Step 2. 
1 June 2016 
E17 
Adoption by the Regulatory Members of the ICH Assem-
bly under Step 4 (document dated 16 November 2017). 
16 November 
2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal notice: This document is protected by copyright and may, with the exception of the ICH 
logo, be used, reproduced, incorporated into other works, adapted, modified, translated or dis-
tributed under a public license provided that ICH's copyright in the document is acknowledged 
at all times.  In case of any adaption, modification or translation of the document, reasonable 
steps must be taken to clearly label, demarcate or otherwise identify that changes were made to 
or based on the original document.  Any impression that the adaption, modification or translation 
of the original document is endorsed or sponsored by the ICH must be avoided. 
The document is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind.  In no event shall the ICH or the 
authors of the original document be liable for any claim, damages or other liability arising from 
the use of the document. 
The above-mentioned permissions do not apply to content supplied by third parties.  Therefore, 
for documents where the copyright vests in a third party, permission for reproduction must be 
obtained from this copyright holder. 


--- Page 3 ---
 
i 
ICH HARMONISED GUIDELINE  
GENERAL PRINCIPLES FOR PLANNING AND DESIGN OF 
MULTI-REGIONAL CLINICAL TRIALS 
E17  
ICH Consensus Guideline 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................ 1 
1.1. 
Objectives of the Guideline ................................................................................................ 1 
1.2. 
Background ........................................................................................................................ 1 
1.3. 
Scope of the Guideline ....................................................................................................... 2 
1.4. 
Basic Principles .................................................................................................................. 2 
2. 
GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS IN THE PLANNING AND DESIGN OF 
MRCTS ........................................................................................................................................ 3 
2.1 
Strategy-related Issues ........................................................................................................ 3 
2.1.1 The Value of MRCTs in Drug Development ............................................................ 3 
2.1.2 Good Clinical Practice (GCP) Requirements and MRCTs ..................................... 6 
2.1.3 Scientific Consultation Meetings with Regulatory Authorities ............................... 6 
2.2 
Clinical Trial Design and Protocol-related Issues .............................................................. 7 
2.2.1 Pre-consideration of Regional Variability and its Potential Impact on Efficacy and 
Safety  ................................................................................................................................ 7 
2.2.2 Subject Selection ..................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.3 Selection of Doses for Use in Confirmatory MRCTs ............................................ 10 
2.2.4 Choice of Endpoints .............................................................................................. 11 
2.2.5 Sample Size Planning ........................................................................................... 13 
2.2.6 Collecting and Handling of Efficacy and Safety Information .............................. 18 
2.2.7 Statistical Analysis Planning ................................................................................ 20 
2.2.8 Selection of Comparators ..................................................................................... 23 
2.2.9 Handling Concomitant Medications ..................................................................... 25 
3. 
GLOSSARY .................................................................................................................... 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 4 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
1 
1. INTRODUCTION 
1.1. Objectives of the Guideline  
With the increasing globalisation of drug development, it has become important that data 
from multi-regional clinical trials (MRCTs) can be accepted by regulatory authorities 
across regions and countries as the primary source of evidence, to support marketing ap-
proval of drugs (medicinal products).  The purpose of this guideline is to describe general 
principles for the planning and design of MRCTs with the aim of increasing the accepta-
bility of MRCTs in global regulatory submissions.  The guideline addresses strategic pro-
gramme issues as well as issues that are specific to the planning and design of confirma-
tory MRCTs, and it should be used together with other ICH guidelines, including E5, E6, 
E8, E9, E10, and E18.  
 
1.2. Background  
In the era of globalisation of drug development, it may be challenging to conduct a drug 
development programme globally, in part due to distinct and sometimes conflicting re-
quirements from regulatory authorities.  At the same time, regulatory authorities face in-
creasing challenges in evaluating data from MRCTs for drug approval.  Data from 
MRCTs are often submitted to multiple regulatory authorities without a previously har-
monised regulatory view on the development programme.  There are currently no ICH 
guidelines that deal specifically with the planning and design of MRCTs, although the 
ICH E5 guideline covers issues relating to the bridging of results from one region to an-
other.  
 
MRCTs conducted according to the present guideline will allow investigation of treat-
ment effects including safety evaluations in the overall population as well as investiga-
tions of the potential impact of intrinsic and extrinsic factors (described as ethnic factors 
in the ICH E5 guideline) on the treatment effect.  MRCTs, which are properly designed 
and executed according to this guideline, may facilitate more efficient drug development 
and increase the possibility of submitting marketing authorisation applications to multiple 
regulatory authorities in different regions simultaneously, thus providing earlier access to 
new drugs worldwide.  In addition, MRCTs conducted according to the present guideline 


--- Page 5 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
2 
may enhance scientific knowledge about how treatment effects vary across regions and 
populations under the umbrella of a single study protocol, and how this variation may be 
explained by intrinsic and extrinsic factors.  
 
1.3. Scope of the Guideline  
MRCT is defined in the present guideline as a clinical trial conducted in more than one 
region under a single protocol.  In this context, a region may refer to a geographical re-
gion, country or regulatory region (see Section 3. Glossary).  The primary focus of this 
guideline is on MRCTs designed to provide data that will be submitted to multiple regu-
latory authorities for drug approval (including approval of additional indications, new 
formulations and new dosing regimens) and for studies conducted to satisfy post-market-
ing requirements.  Certain aspects of this guideline may also be relevant to studies con-
ducted early in clinical development or in later phases.  The present guideline mainly 
covers drugs including biological products, although some sections may not be applicable 
to all development programmes (e.g., pharmacokinetics (PK) not used for preventive vac-
cine dose-finding).  
 
1.4. Basic Principles  
Basic principles for designing MRCTs are described below. Subsequent sections expand 
on these principles in more detail.  
1. Strategic use of MRCTs in drug development programmes, properly designed and 
executed according to this guideline, can increase efficiency of drug development. 
MRCTs may enable simultaneous submission of marketing authorisation applica-
tions and support regulatory decision-making in multiple regions, allowing earlier 
access to new drugs worldwide.  Although MRCTs may generally become the 
preferred option for investigating a new drug for which regulatory submission is 
planned in multiple regions, the potential for regional differences to impact the 
interpretability of study results should be carefully considered.  
2. The intrinsic and extrinsic factors important to the drug development programme, 
should be identified early.  The potential impact of these factors could be exam-
ined in the exploratory phases before the design of confirmatory MRCTs.  Infor-


--- Page 6 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
3 
mation about them should also be collected during the confirmatory trial for eval-
uation of their impact on treatment effects.  
3. MRCTs are planned under the assumption that the treatment effect applies to the 
entire target population, particularly to the regions included in the trial.  Strategic 
allocation of the sample size to regions allows an evaluation of the extent to which 
this assumption holds.  
4. Pre-specified pooling of regions or subpopulations, based on established 
knowledge about similarities, may help provide flexibility in sample size alloca-
tion to regions, facilitate the assessment of consistency in treatment effects across 
regions, and support regulatory decision-making.  
5. A single primary analysis approach for hypothesis testing and estimation of the 
overall treatment effect should be planned so that it will be acceptable to all con-
cerned regulatory authorities.  A structured exploration to examine the consistency 
of treatment effects across regions and subpopulations should be planned.  
6. In light of diverse regional practices, ensuring high quality of study design and 
conduct in accordance with ICH E6 in all regions is of paramount importance to 
ensure the study results are interpretable.  Careful attention to quality during trial 
planning, investigator training, and trial monitoring will help achieve consistently 
high trial quality required for a successful MRCT.  
7. Efficient communication among sponsors and regulatory authorities is encour-
aged at the planning stage of MRCTs, with the goal of obtaining acceptance of a 
global approach to study design across the different regulatory regions.  
 
2. 
GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS IN THE PLANNING AND DESIGN OF MRCTS  
2.1 Strategy-related Issues  
2.1.1 
The Value of MRCTs in Drug Development  
Historically, drug development focused on regulatory strategies designed for specific reg-
ulatory regions.  In that context, MRCTs had been recognised as an efficient way to enable 
recruitment of the planned number of trial subjects within a reasonable timeframe when 
either the disease and/or condition was rare (e.g., an enzyme deficiency disorder), for 
special (e.g., elderly, paediatric) populations, or when very large numbers of subjects 


--- Page 7 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
4 
were required (e.g., cardiovascular outcome studies, vaccine efficacy studies).  More re-
cently, global regulatory strategies are also used to plan and conduct studies more effi-
ciently to facilitate more rapid availability of drugs to patients worldwide.  
 
MRCTs allow for an examination of the applicability of a treatment to diverse popula-
tions.  The intrinsic and/or extrinsic factors that are believed or suspected to impact upon 
responses to the drug can be further evaluated based on data from various regions using 
a single protocol.  For example, the impact on the treatment effect of genetic differences 
or different distribution of gene polymorphisms in drug metabolising enzymes or the mo-
lecular target of a drug can be examined in exploratory and/or confirmatory MRCTs that 
include subjects with different intrinsic factors across regions.  Accumulated knowledge 
of the impact of intrinsic and extrinsic factors and global sharing of experiences in various 
regions may promote inclusion of additional regions in MRCTs.  
 
The primary reason for performing MRCTs is to evaluate the overall treatment effect 
based on data from subjects in all regions.  However, intrinsic and/or extrinsic factors 
may be expected to impact subjects’ responses to drugs differently across regions and 
should be considered when planning MRCTs.  If major differences in treatment effects 
are expected, available data should be assessed to decide, whether it is appropriate and 
feasible to conduct the MRCT.  Even in the case of expected major differences in treat-
ment effects, it may still be possible, to conduct MRCTs by excluding some regions or a 
defined subgroup within a region, after careful consideration.  Additional strategies to 
study a disease and/or drug in the excluded regions should be considered (see ICH E5).  
If MRCTs are the source of data in the bridging strategy based on the ICH E5 guideline, 
MRCTs could provide more robust evidence than single regional trials for extrapolation 
of study results.  In some cases, single-region studies may be appropriate, such as in the 
evaluation of drugs to treat or prevent a disease that is prevalent in a single region (e.g., 
anti-malarial drugs, vaccines specific to local epidemics, or antibiotics for region-specific 
strains).  
 
MRCTs can facilitate simultaneous global development of a drug and reduce the number 
of clinical studies conducted separately in each region, thereby minimising unnecessary 
duplication of studies.  Although MRCTs require more coordination during the planning 
stage and possibly increase start-up time, their use may provide a pathway for earlier 


--- Page 8 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
5 
access to new drugs worldwide by facilitating earlier approval across regions, thereby 
avoiding significant lag in the availability of new drugs in some regions.  
 
As shown in the illustrative examples in Figure 1, the timing of clinical drug development 
across different regions can be synchronised by the use of MRCTs, in comparison to local 
studies conducted independently in each region.  Figure 1 also illustrates the use of 
MRCTs in the overall design of the drug development programme, not only in the con-
firmatory stage, but also as an option in the exploratory stage, where it is feasible.  Early 
identification of relevant intrinsic and extrinsic factors could set a good foundation for 
planning confirmatory MRCTs.  
 
 
 
 
It may be plausible and efficient for an MRCT to be the single pivotal trial to support 
regulatory submission, and if this is the case, it should be designed to provide sufficient 
and robust evidence to support approval.  
 
Figure 1.  Illustrations of clinical drug development workflow across regions 
for drug submission and regulatory review in independent and 
global strategies 
*: Marketing Authorization Application/New Drug Application 
**: Could be parallel single region trials or MRCTs 


--- Page 9 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
6 
In summary, strategic use of MRCTs, properly designed and executed according to this 
guideline, can increase efficiency of drug development, allow for exploration of the treat-
ment effect to diverse populations, and enable simultaneous submission of marketing au-
thorisation applications and regulatory decision-making in multiple regions.  Therefore, 
MRCTs may generally become the preferred option for investigating a new drug for 
which regulatory submission is planned in multiple regions.  
 
2.1.2 
Good Clinical Practice (GCP) Requirements and MRCTs  
All sites participating in MRCTs should meet applicable quality, ethical and regulatory 
standards.  Specifically, MRCTs should be conducted in compliance with ICH E6 GCP 
standards in all regions and sites, including making sites available for GCP inspections 
by regulatory authorities.  Monitoring plans and other quality checks should be pre-spec-
ified and implemented in order to address potential risks to subject rights, safety and well-
being, and to the reliability of study results.  Centralised and risk-based monitoring may 
be particularly useful for MRCTs in order to monitor and mitigate the impact of emerging 
regional differences in, for example, trial subject retention or adverse event reporting 
(ICH E6).  Timely and accurate flow of information should occur between the sponsor, 
the trial management team and the participating sites.  
 
2.1.3 
Scientific Consultation Meetings with Regulatory Authorities  
Sponsors of MRCTs are encouraged to have scientific consultation meetings with rele-
vant regulatory authorities.  These interactions should take place during the planning stage 
of MRCTs to discuss the regulatory requirements for the overall development plan and 
the acceptability of MRCT data to support marketing authorisations.  Conducting such 
consultation meetings early in the planning stage of MRCTs will enable the comments 
received from regulatory authorities to be taken into consideration.  The sponsor should 
prepare the protocol and other relevant documents, and it may be beneficial to include 
information as to which authorities are providing regulatory advice, and how that advice 
is being taken into consideration.  Consultation with authorities may happen at various 
stages affecting different aspects of protocol development.  Inter-authority scientific dis-
cussions are encouraged to allow for harmonisation of study requirements.  
 


--- Page 10 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
7 
2.2 Clinical Trial Design and Protocol-related Issues  
2.2.1 
Pre-consideration of Regional Variability and its Potential Impact on Efficacy and 
Safety  
At the planning stage, regional variability, the extent to which it can be explained by 
intrinsic and extrinsic factors, and its potential to influence the study results, should be 
carefully considered in determining the role MRCTs can play in the drug development 
strategy.  To facilitate taking into consideration differences among regions in intrinsic 
and extrinsic factors, it is recommended that investigators and experts representing par-
ticipating regions are consulted in the planning and design of MRCTs.  
 
The most current and relevant data should be used to understand the potential sources of 
regional variability (e.g., early trials, previous experience of the drug class).  If historical 
data are used, it should be considered whether these data are still relevant in terms of 
scientific and methodological validity and in the current treatment context.  The magni-
tude of such variability could be examined in exploratory studies before the planning and 
design of confirmatory MRCTs.  
 
The intrinsic and extrinsic factors important to the drug development programme, should 
be identified during the planning stage of an MRCT, and information about them should 
be collected during the confirmatory trial for later evaluation of their impact on treatment 
effects.  The ICH E5 guideline describes intrinsic and extrinsic factors, which may affect 
the treatment effect.  In the MRCT setting, the following factors are particularly important 
and should be considered to identify regions that are suspected to show differences in 
treatment effects compared to the overall trial results.  
 
1. Disease definitions, methods of diagnosis and the understanding of certain end-
points may vary between regions.  These differences could be mitigated by pre-
cisely defining inclusion and exclusion criteria as well as study procedures.  
2. There may be differences in medical practices and treatments across regions.  
Such differences may have an impact on the trial results and/or their interpretation.  
Standardised protocol and training for investigators and study personnel in each 
region before initiating the trial in that region may reduce some of the impact of 


--- Page 11 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
8 
this variability.  
3. Diet, environmental factors, cultural or socio-economic factors (e.g., contracep-
tive use, preferences for a particular route of administration) and access to 
healthcare may impact trial results.  They may also impact recruitment, compli-
ance, and study subject retention, and may inform relevant mitigation strategies.  
4. Subjects’ responses to different drugs may be more or less sensitive to intrinsic 
factors, leading to regional variability.  For example, genetic polymorphisms in 
drug metabolism or receptor sensitivity (described in ICH E5 Appendix D) or 
body weight and age may impact PK-pharmacodynamics (PD), as well as efficacy 
and safety of the drug.  This applies not only to the investigational drug, but also 
to comparators and concomitant medications and should be taken into account 
during planning of MRCTs.  
 
Some sensitivity of the treatment effect to intrinsic and/or extrinsic factors may be ex-
pected in different regions, but should not preclude consideration of MRCTs.  Often, the 
degree of variability based on the factors mentioned above can be mitigated by proper 
design and execution of MRCTs.  Providing additional support as needed (e.g., logistical, 
infrastructure, laboratory) to specific regions or other mitigation strategies should be con-
sidered and implemented to reduce variability.  However, it is important to consider 
whether the degree of mitigation may impact the generalizability of the study results.  
 
Even with the mitigation strategies described above, regional differences may still exist, 
and these differences are usually due to underlying intrinsic and extrinsic factors.  In this 
sense, region is an indicator for other, often unknown (or unanticipated) factors causing 
regional differences in treatment effects. For this reason, MRCTs are usually stratified by 
region (see Section 2.2.5).  Figure 2 illustrates the way in which intrinsic and/or extrinsic 
factors such as disease severity (Figure 2a) or ethnicity (Figure 2b) may manifest as re-
gional differences in treatment response.  However, these factors may explain such ap-
parent differences across regions.  In Figure 2a, response to treatment increases with dis-
ease severity, and disease severity differs by region.  This scenario is manifested by ob-
served regional differences in response to treatment that are explained by differences in 
the distribution of the underlying factor (disease severity) among regions.  The same phe-
nomenon is illustrated in Figure 2b, where regional differences in response to treatment 
can be explained by differences in the ethnic distribution of the regions.  This type of 


--- Page 12 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
9 
investigation is dependent on appropriate stratification and sample size allocation to re-
gions (see Section 2.2.5).  
 
Figure 2. Illustration: primary endpoint modulated by intrinsic and extrinsic factors 
across regions; (2a) by severity of disease, (2b) by ethnic group.  
 
2.2.2 
Subject Selection  
In MRCTs, subject selection should be carefully considered to better understand and pos-
sibly mitigate potential sources of regional variability and their impact on trial results.  
Clear and specific inclusion and exclusion criteria, that are acceptable and can be applied 
across regions, should be included in the protocol.  
 
To harmonise subject selection, uniform classification and criteria for diagnosis of the 
disease or definition of the at-risk population should be implemented, such as the use of 
relevant guidelines for disease definitions.  When diagnostic tools (e.g., biochemical test-
ing, genetic testing) are needed for the selection of subjects, these should be clearly spec-
ified including the degree to which local validated tools and qualified laboratories may 
be used.  In particular, when subject selection is based on subjective criteria (e.g., use of 
symptom scales in rheumatoid arthritis), the same methods (e.g., validated symptom 
scales and/or scores in the appropriate language) should be used uniformly across regions.  
Even so, reporting of symptoms may vary by region and may lead to differences in the 
types of subjects included in the studies.  This aspect should be considered in the planning 
stage, in order to implement training requirements and other strategies for potential miti-
gation of the impact.  
 


--- Page 13 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
10 
Recommended tools, such as validated imaging instruments and measurements of bi-
omarkers, should be available, or made available, in all regions when these tools are uti-
lised for subject selection.  Imaging methods, as well as methods for specimen collection, 
handling and storage should be clearly defined and standardised across regions to the 
degree required.  
 
2.2.3 
Selection of Doses for Use in Confirmatory MRCTs  
It is important to execute well-planned early development programmes that include PK 
and/or PK-PD studies of applicable parameters, in order to identify regional differences 
which may impact dose selection.  To understand the impact of ethnicity on PK and/or 
PK-PD, data may be obtained from single-region trials in multiple regions, or a trial with 
multiple ethnicities conducted in one region.  Alternatively, early phase MRCTs may be 
considered, if they aid in efficiently gathering such data and improve the understanding 
of regional differences in PK-PD.  
 
PK studies should be undertaken in the major ethnic groups most relevant to the regions 
to be included in MRCTs, if differences are expected that are not yet adequately under-
stood (see ICH E5).  Adequate PK comparisons between subpopulations known to be 
associated with differences in PK will allow for decisions with respect to the need for 
pharmacodynamic studies and dose-response studies in different regions and/or subpop-
ulations.  
 
It is encouraged to collect genetic data (e.g., genotypes of drug metabolising enzymes) 
from subjects enrolled in the early studies to examine the effects of genetic factors on PK 
and PD.  Such early data may provide useful information when determining dosing regi-
men(s) for future studies, where subjects with specific genotypes may be considered a 
subpopulation.  
 
A strategy for dose-selection involving population PK approaches and/or model-based 
approaches (e.g., exposure-response models) may be useful to identify important factors 
affecting drug responses in different populations, and to set an appropriate dose range for 
further dose-response studies.  Dose-response studies should cover a broad range of doses 
and generally include the populations to be enrolled in confirmatory MRCTs.  However, 


--- Page 14 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
11 
it may not be necessary to obtain PK-PD or dose-response data from subjects in all regions 
planned to be included in confirmatory MRCTs, if important regional differences in PK 
and/or PD and dose-response are not anticipated (e.g., response to the drug is unlikely to 
be sensitive to intrinsic and extrinsic factors) (see ICH E5, appendix D).  
 
The acceptability of dose-selection strategies should be discussed in advance with the 
relevant regulatory authorities.  If substantial differences are anticipated (e.g., the drug 
response is sensitive to intrinsic and/or extrinsic factors), further investigations may be 
needed.  These could include a PK-PD or dose-response study conducted in a particular 
ethnic population or studies conducted for a broader population, that would allow further 
evaluation of the impact of intrinsic and extrinsic factors on dose-response.  
 
The dose regimens in confirmatory MRCTs (based on data from studies mentioned 
above) should in principle be the same in all participating ethnic population.  However, 
if earlier trial data show a clear difference in dose-response and/or exposure-response 
relationships for an ethnic population, it may be appropriate to use a different dosing 
regimen, provided that the regimen is expected to produce similar therapeutic effects with 
an acceptable safety margin, and provided it is scientifically justified in the study proto-
col.  Prospective careful planning of assessment strategies where different doses are used 
should be tailored to each case and described in the analysis plans.  
2.2.4 
Choice of Endpoints  
The general principles for endpoint selection and definitions that are provided in ICH E9 
apply.  The aspects of particular importance to MRCTs are described here.  
Primary Endpoint  
The primary endpoint should be relevant to the target population.  In MRCTs, this rele-
vance needs to be considered for all regions in the trial and with respect to the various 
drug, disease and population characteristics represented in those regions (see Section 
2.2.1).  An ideal clinical trial endpoint is one that is clinically relevant, accepted in med-
ical practice (e.g., by regulatory guidance or professional society guidelines) and suffi-
ciently sensitive and specific to detect the anticipated effect of the treatment.  For MRCTs, 
the primary endpoint, whether efficacy or safety, should satisfy these criteria as well as 
being acceptable to all concerned regulatory authorities, to ensure that interpretation of 


--- Page 15 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
12 
the success or failure of the MRCT is consistent across regions and among regulatory 
authorities.  Agreement on the primary endpoint ensures that the overall sample size and 
power can be determined for a single (primary) endpoint based on the overall population 
and also agreed upon by the regulatory authorities.  If agreement cannot be reached due 
to well-justified scientific or regulatory reasons, a single protocol should be developed 
with endpoint-related sub-sections tailored to meet the respective requirements of the reg-
ulatory authorities.  In this case, because regulatory approvals are based on different pri-
mary endpoints by different authorities, no multiplicity adjustment is needed for regula-
tory decision-making.  
 
Using MRCTs may introduce the need for further consideration regarding the definition 
of the primary endpoint.  While endpoints like mortality or other directly measurable out-
comes are self-explanatory, others may require precise and uniform definitions (e.g., pro-
gression-free survival).  Of specific concern in MRCTs are those endpoints that could be 
understood and/or measured differently across regions.  Examples are hospitalisation, 
psychometric scales, assessment of quality of life and pain scales.  To guarantee that such 
scales can be properly interpreted, the scales should be validated and their applicability 
to all relevant regions justified before starting the MRCT.  
 
The primary endpoint of MRCTs should be one for which experience is already available 
in the participating regions.  In cases where prior experience with an endpoint only exists 
in one or a subset of regions involved in the MRCT, its adoption as primary endpoint will 
require discussion and agreement with regulatory authorities regarding the basis for the 
evidence, keeping in mind that the forthcoming trial can add information about clinical 
relevance of the agreed upon endpoint.  
 
In addition to endpoint selection and definition, regulatory agreement should also be ob-
tained on the timing and methods of the primary endpoint assessment.  
Secondary Endpoints  
Where possible, harmonisation of secondary endpoints is encouraged to maintain the fea-
sibility and improve the quality of trial conduct.  However, in some cases, individual 
regulatory authorities may propose different secondary endpoints relevant to their inter-
ests and experience.  Even in such cases, all secondary endpoints, including those selected 


--- Page 16 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
13 
only for a particular local stakeholder (e.g., regulatory authority), should be described in 
the protocol.  It is in the interest of the sponsor to describe the specific advantages of the 
investigational drug, in terms of secondary endpoints as precisely as possible during the 
planning stage of MRCTs, to reduce the need for (and impact of) multiplicity adjustments 
for multiple endpoints, thereby improving the chance for successfully demonstrating the 
intended effect.  
Other Considerations  
Although endpoints may not require formal validation, some endpoints may be subject to 
subtle differences in understanding, when used in different cultural settings.  For example, 
certain types of adverse events may be more sensitively reported (e.g., more or less fre-
quently) in some regions than others, resulting in differences in reporting patterns due to 
cultural variation, rather than true differences in incidence.  Use of these variables as 
endpoints in MRCTs will require careful planning.  Approaches to minimise the impact 
of this variation in data collection and interpretation of the trial results should be described 
and justified in the study protocol.  
 
Endpoints that are only of interest to one or a few regions could be considered for a re-
gional sub-trial of the MRCT.  However, care should be taken to ensure that ascertainment 
of regional sub-trial endpoints do not hamper the conduct of the main trial.  In particular, 
consideration should be given to the impact of additional burden to study subjects and 
study personnel, and the potential to induce reporting bias with respect to other endpoints, 
in determining whether regional sub-trials can be conducted or whether a separate trial is 
needed.  
 
2.2.5 
 Sample Size Planning 
General Considerations 
The key consideration for sample size planning, is ensuring sufficient sample size to be 
able to evaluate the overall treatment effect, under the assumption that the treatment effect 
applies to the entire target population, particularly to the regions included in the trial.  
MRCT offers a unique opportunity to evaluate the extent to which this assumption holds.  
MRCTs are usually stratified by region for both randomization and analysis.  Consistency 


--- Page 17 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
14 
of treatment effects across regions is evaluated, and if clinically relevant differences are 
observed, there should be further exploration to determine if these differences can be at-
tributed to differences in intrinsic or extrinsic factors (see Section 2.2.7).  These consid-
erations should be reflected in the overall design of the MRCT and will influence the 
sample size planning and allocation to regions.  
Overall Sample Size  
The primary objective of an MRCT generally corresponds to an evaluation (estimation 
and testing) of the treatment effect averaged across all subjects in all regions of the 
MRCT.  The overall sample-size is determined to ensure that this objective can be met.  
Examples of commonly defined treatment effects also used in MRCTs, are hazard ratios 
for morbidity or mortality, differences between treatment groups in average blood pres-
sure levels (adjusted for baseline) and relative risks of either favourable or adverse events.  
 
The same general principles provided in ICH E9 for determining sample sizes of clinical 
trials apply to MRCTs.  Two additional factors are particularly important in the MRCT 
setting; (i) the size of the treatment effect that is considered clinically relevant to all re-
gions in the trial, and (ii) the expected variability of the primary outcome variables based 
on combining data across regions.  These factors may result in a sample size increase for 
an MRCT compared to a single trial in one region.  The extent of this increase will depend 
on the specific disease and the mechanism of action of the drug, as well as the intrinsic 
and extrinsic factors and their potential impact on drug response in each region.  Data 
from early exploratory trials with the investigational drug in relevant populations may 
inform sample size determination.  
Sample Size Allocation to Regions  
The MRCT should be planned to include an evaluation of the consistency of treatment 
effects among regions, where consistency is defined as a lack of clinically relevant dif-
ferences.  If clinically relevant differences among regions are observed, then the MRCT 
provides a unique opportunity for additional learning about the factors that may explain 
these differences.  Regional allocation should have a scientific basis (rather than arbitrary 
targets), should support the evaluation of consistency and should provide the information 
needed to support regulatory decisions.  
 


--- Page 18 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
15 
Sample size allocation to regions should take into consideration patterns of disease prev-
alence across regions, the size and expected accrual rate of each region, the intrinsic and 
extrinsic factors understood (or hypothesized) to influence treatment effects, the preva-
lence of those factors in each region and other logistical considerations thought to impact 
accrual.  A regional allocation strategy that balances these considerations will help to 
ensure that enrolment can be completed in a timely fashion and that the MRCT objectives 
are met.  
 
There is no uniformly acceptable or optimal approach to sample size allocation in an 
MRCT.  Some approaches currently in use include:  
1. Proportional Allocation: Allocation of subjects to regions in proportion to size of 
region and disease prevalence.  
2. Equal Allocation: Allocation of equal numbers of subjects to each region.  
3. Preservation of Effect: Allocation of subjects to one or more regions based on 
preserving some specified proportion of the overall treatment effect.  
4. Local Significance: Allocation of a sufficient number of subjects to be able to 
achieve significant results within each region.  
5. Fixed Minimum Number: Allocation of a fixed minimum number of subjects to a 
region.  
 
Proportional allocation facilitates recruitment by allocating subjects to the regions with 
the greatest disease burden, and absent other impediments, will generally minimize the 
time needed to complete enrolment.  The disadvantage is that some regions may end up 
with too few or no subjects, while other regions may dominate the outcome of the trial.  
Equal allocation has the advantage of optimizing the power available to detect differences 
in treatment effects between regions for a given overall sample size target.  The disad-
vantage is that recruitment may be slowed to a possibly unacceptable level, particularly 
if disease prevalence or ease of recruitment varies substantially among the regions in the 
MRCT.  A balance between proportional and equal allocation is recommended, to ensure 
that recruitment is feasible and able to be completed in a timely fashion, but also to pro-
vide sufficient information to evaluate the drug in its regional context.  
 
Allocation to preserve a proportion of the overall effect is not practical if many regions 
in the trial have this requirement.  Allocation based on achieving local significance of 


--- Page 19 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
16 
regional treatment effects is also not practical, as this strategy may inflate the sample size 
beyond feasibility and brings into question the concept of conducting an MRCT.  Allo-
cating a fixed minimum sample size for regions is not recommended, if there is no scien-
tific justification for selecting the minimum.  
 
In practice, sample size allocation deliberations will reflect both scientific and logistical 
considerations.  For example, an initial allocation may be determined that targets the pop-
ulation affected by the disease, taking disease prevalence and regional size into account.  
This initial allocation should ensure that the overall sample size can be achieved.  The 
allocation would then be modified to reduce any large imbalances in regional sample sizes 
and to support an evaluation of consistency of treatment effects across regions.  This 
modification could entail pooling some regions (as described below) to provide flexibility 
in sample size allocation.  Minimum regional sample size targets that are scientifically 
justified could also be taken into consideration at this step.  One example would be to 
specify a minimum sample size to provide meaningful descriptive summaries (e.g., forest 
plots) with sufficient accuracy and precision.  
 
Alternatively, an equal allocation to regions could be planned as the first step, with mod-
ification to better reflect regional sample sizes, disease prevalence and trial logistics at 
the second step.  With either strategy, care should be taken to ensure that no single region 
or regions dominates enrolment, thereby dominating the trial outcome.  
 
Note that the five approaches discussed above are not exhaustive.  New approaches for 
sample size allocation in MRCTs may be developed in the future, and innovation in this 
area is encouraged.  
Pooled Regions and Pooled Subpopulations  
Pre-specified pooling of regions or subpopulations may help provide flexibility in sample 
size allocation to regions, facilitate the assessment of consistency in treatment effects 
across regions, and support regulatory decision-making.  For definitions of pooled regions 
and pooled subpopulations, see 3. Glossary.  The pooling strategy should be justified 
based on the distribution of the intrinsic and extrinsic factors known to affect the treat-
ment response, and the disease under investigation and similarity of those factors across 


--- Page 20 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
17 
regions.  For example, pooling Canada and the United States into a North American re-
gion is often justified because of similar medical practices and similar use of concomitant 
medications.  Pooling strategies should be specified in the study protocol and statistical 
analysis plan, if applicable.  
 
As discussed earlier, region is often a surrogate for the underlying intrinsic and extrinsic 
factors that tend to differentiate regions or populations from each other.  If there is suffi-
cient knowledge about these factors at the trial design stage, it may be possible to define 
subpopulations based on those factors, and then incorporate these newly defined subpop-
ulations in the stratification and analysis, in addition to region.  Formally, the term pooled 
subpopulation refers to pooling of a subset of the subjects from one region with similarly 
defined subsets from other regions whose members share one or more intrinsic or extrin-
sic factors important for the drug development programme.  
 
Ethnicity usually crosses regional boundaries and can be an important risk factor for the 
disease or related to treatment response (as the example in Section 2.2.1. Figure 2b illus-
trates).  Pooling ethnic subpopulations across regions in an MRCT provides an oppor-
tunity to evaluate the impact of ethnicity on treatment effects.  Examples include Hispan-
ics living in North and South America, or Caucasians living in Europe and North Amer-
ica.  Pooling across regional boundaries by other intrinsic or extrinsic factors may also be 
considered (e.g., by genotype).  
 
The sample size allocation should consider the planned analysis of variability of treatment 
effect among pooled subpopulations, and the principles described above for allocation to 
regions may also apply to pooled subpopulations.  Note that information about the extrin-
sic and intrinsic factors used to define pooling strategies should be collected for subjects 
enrolled in the trial to be able to monitor the recruitment strategy and ensure adequate 
regional and subpopulation representation.  
Other Sample Size Considerations  
The factors that influence sample size and sample size allocation should be agreed upon 
in advance with the different regulatory agencies governing the regions represented in the 
trial.  For non-inferiority or equivalence trials, regulatory agreement is also needed on the 


--- Page 21 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
18 
relevant margin.  If, after extensive attempts to reach consensus among regulatory author-
ities, it is the case that different regulatory requirements remain due to well-described 
scientific arguments, the most stringent margin should be considered for sample size cal-
culation.  
 
There are some situations that do not fit into the framework for sample size allocation 
described above and where more flexibility will be required.  In studies of rare diseases 
or an infectious disease outbreak, for example, disease prevalence may differ substantially 
between regions, and it may be necessary to allow one or more regions to dominate the 
trial for recruitment to be feasible.  The recruitment strategy should be discussed with the 
regulatory authorities during planning.  
 
In summary, comparing with sample size requirements in regional or local studies, the 
potential increase of the overall sample size in MRCTs should be due primarily to the 
increased variability anticipated for a multi-regional population and not due to overly 
stringent or arbitrary regional sample size requirements.  The use of a well-justified and 
pre-specified strategy for pooling regions and/or subpopulations in conjunction with a 
carefully thought out sample allocation plan can facilitate meeting the objectives of the 
MRCT.  
 
2.2.6 
Collecting and Handling of Efficacy and Safety Information  
Adherence to GCP, as described in ICH E6, is critical for any clinical trial to meet its 
stated objectives and is particularly important in an MRCT, because of the coordination 
required to conduct a trial in diverse geographic regions.  Methods of collecting and han-
dling efficacy and safety information should be standardised across participating regions.  
It is also important to provide standardised training for investigators and study personnel 
in each region before initiating the trial in that region to ensure that the trial objectives 
are met through standardised implementation of the study protocol.  
 
Safety reporting should be conducted in accordance with ICH E2.  When local regulations 
specify different requirements, such as timelines and criteria for expedited reporting, 
these should also be adhered to locally.  The specific timeframe for safety reporting 


--- Page 22 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
19 
should be described in the protocol, and the investigators should receive sufficient train-
ing in accordance with ICH E6 and other relevant guidelines.  In the case of MRCTs, 
important safety information should be handled both with adherence to any local regula-
tions and in adherence to ICH E2A.  Important safety information should always be pro-
vided to the relevant stakeholders (e.g., investigators, ethics committees) in a timely man-
ner.  
 
In MRCTs of long duration, where special concerns (e.g., serious adverse events) have 
been identified, and/or where operational regions are quite large (usually Phase III con-
firmatory studies), the use of a central independent data monitoring committee (with rep-
resentation from participating regions to adequately assess the context of the trial) should 
be considered, in order to monitor the accumulating efficacy and/or safety information 
from the MRCT while maintaining integrity of the ongoing trial.  If adjudication of end-
points and/or events is planned, a centralised assessment by a single adjudication com-
mittee should be considered.  
 
For endpoints based on laboratory or imaging assessments, it is generally recommended 
to use a centralised laboratory or centralised adjudication of imaging.  If multiple labora-
tories are used, appropriate cross-validation of methods between laboratories should be 
conducted before testing clinical samples.  
 
Coordinated site initiation is particularly important in MRCTs to ensure proper conduct, 
completion and reporting of results without any delays among regions.  To comply with 
the quality management described in ICH E6, the sponsor should implement a system to 
manage quality in design, conduct, oversight, recording, evaluation, reporting and archiv-
ing of MRCTs.  In this aspect, centralised and risk-based monitoring may be particularly 
useful for MRCTs to identify variability across regions and sites in protocol compliance 
(e.g., differences in follow-up, compliance with study medications, adverse event report-
ing and/or extent of missing data).  Mitigation approaches should take regional variations 
into consideration.  It could also be considered to use electronic data capturing and re-
porting, to gather information and data (including relevant intrinsic and extrinsic factors) 
from all regions in a standardised way without delays.  If trial related documents (e.g., a 
case report form) are translated to local languages, consistency of documents between 
languages should be ensured (e.g., by reverse translation).  As described above, careful 


--- Page 23 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
20 
attention to quality during trial planning, investigator training and trial monitoring will 
help achieve the consistently high trial quality required for a successful MRCT.  
 
2.2.7 
Statistical Analysis Planning  
ICH E9 provides general statistical principles for planning and conducting statistical anal-
yses of randomised clinical trials.  Aspects of analysis planning that are particularly im-
portant for MRCTs are described below.  The analysis strategy should be planned to en-
able the qualitative and/or quantitative evaluation of benefit/risk (ICH M4E) across re-
gions or important subpopulations represented in the MRCT.  
Obtaining Regulatory Input on Analysis Strategy  
It is recommended to have early discussions with the regulatory authorities involved in 
the MRCT, and to obtain their agreement on the proposed analysis strategy.  The standard 
is to specify a single primary analysis approach in the statistical section of the study pro-
tocol to be agreed upon with the authorities in advance of initiating the trial.  If in an 
MRCT, regulatory requirements for the primary analysis strategy differ due to well-jus-
tified scientific or regulatory reasons, the analysis strategies planned to satisfy the differ-
ent requirements should be described in the study protocol.  If, in addition, a statistical 
analysis plan is required as a separate document by more than one regulatory authority, a 
single analysis plan integrating the different regulatory requirements should be devel-
oped.  The analysis strategy for an MRCT should be finalized prior to unblinding of treat-
ment assignments, if applicable, to ensure trial integrity.  
Primary Analysis  
In planning an MRCT, the primary analysis strategy should carefully consider (1) the 
target population, (2) the endpoints/variables of primary interest, (3) the relevant intrinsic 
and extrinsic factors in the multi-regional, multi-subpopulation context and (4) the popu-
lation-level summary of data required to describe the treatment effect. For most MRCTs, 
the primary analysis will correspond to a test of the hypothesis about the treatment effect 
and the estimation of that effect, considering data from all regions and subpopulations 
included in the trial.  
 
If randomisation is stratified by region, the primary analysis should adjust for regions 


--- Page 24 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
21 
using appropriate statistical methods.  If some regions were pooled based on intrinsic 
and/or extrinsic factors, or if pooled subpopulations were defined for stratification pur-
poses during trial planning, then this pooling should be reflected in the analysis.  
Examination of Consistency across Regions and Subpopulations  
The statistical analysis strategy should include the evaluation of the consistency of treat-
ment effects across regions and subpopulations.  For this purpose, consistency in treat-
ment effects is defined as a lack of clinically relevant differences between treatment ef-
fects in different regions or subpopulations.  Various analytical approaches to this evalu-
ation, possibly used in combination, include but are not limited to (1) descriptive sum-
maries, (2) graphical displays (e.g., forest plots), (3) model-based estimation including 
covariate-adjusted analysis and (4) test of treatment-by-region interaction.  There are 
strengths and limitations to any method (e.g., interaction tests often have very low power), 
and these should be carefully considered during analysis planning.  
If clinically relevant differences in treatment effects among regions are observed, a struc-
tured exploration of these differences should be planned.  The exploration could proceed 
in the following steps:  
 
1. Factors known a priori to vary among regions and hypothesized to be prognostic 
or predictive should be planned for and evaluated in the analysis model.  Examples 
of intrinsic and extrinsic factors likely to be prognostic include disease severity, 
race, other subject characteristics (e.g., smoking status, body mass index), medical 
practice/therapeutic approach (e.g., different doses of concomitant medications 
used in clinical practice) or genetic factors (e.g., polymorphisms in drug metabo-
lising enzymes), that are well-established for the disease or therapy and suggested 
from early stages of investigation.  
2. Even with careful planning, unexpected regional differences may be observed, 
and post-hoc analyses should be used for further investigation.  Factors known to 
be prognostic for the disease would be examined first, because they are often 
found to be predictive of differential treatment effects as well.  If the distribution 
of a prognostic factor is found to differ between regions, then apparent regional 
differences in treatment effects may be explained by differences in the prognostic 
factors.  
3. Regional differences not explained by examination of known factors may require 


--- Page 25 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
22 
further post-hoc investigation to either identify plausible reasons for the differ-
ences or to better understand the observed heterogeneity.  In some cases, addi-
tional data, including data from other clinical trials, or supportive evidence from 
other sources, may be needed to understand the regional differences observed.  
These eventualities should be carefully considered at the planning stage.  
Planned Subgroup Analyses  
In addition to analyses intended to investigate any regional or pooled subpopulation dif-
ferences in treatment effects that may be observed in an MRCT, other subgroup analyses 
will usually also be of interest, just as they are for any clinical trial (e.g., analyses to 
investigate differential treatment effects by sex and age) and should be planned.  If sub-
group differences in overall treatment effects are observed, then exploring whether the 
subgroup differences are consistent across regions or pooled regions may be informative.  
 
In summary, the assessment of consistency of treatment effects should be done with dili-
gence to inform regulatory decision-making.  The credibility of regional, pooled subpop-
ulation, or subgroup findings should take into consideration biological plausibility, inter-
nal consistency (e.g., similar patterns of regional variability observed for other secondary 
endpoints) and/or external consistency (e.g., similar patterns observed in another clinical 
trial of the same drug), the strength of evidence, the clinical relevance, and the statistical 
uncertainty.  The more of the aforementioned considerations support a potential finding, 
the greater the likelihood the finding is not false.  The evaluation of consistency will ben-
efit from joint clinical and statistical perspectives.  
Estimation of Regional Treatment Effects  
The statistical analysis section of the protocol should describe appropriate statistical 
methods for estimating and reporting treatment effects and measures of their uncertainty 
for individual regions.  This plan should include a determination of the adequacy of sam-
ple sizes to support robust estimation within each region or pooled region for which re-
porting of treatment effect is of interest.  If the sample size in a region is so small that the 
estimates of effect will likely be unreliable, the use of other methods should be consid-
ered, including the search for options for additional pooling of regions based on common-
alities, or borrowing information from other regions or pooled regions using an appropri-


--- Page 26 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
23 
ate statistical model.  Covariate adjusted models may be especially important in this set-
ting as a way to account for intrinsic and extrinsic factors.  Methods using weighted av-
erages of the overall effect estimate and the estimate using data from individual regions 
(shrinkage estimates) may be considered, particularly when regional sample sizes are 
small and outlying values may be overly influential.  The choice of model should reflect 
an understanding of how intrinsic/extrinsic factors affect the regional estimates and be 
based on appropriate statistical methods.  Sensitivity analyses should be planned that vary 
the assumptions required for the model.  
Impact of Trial Quality on Analysis  
Differences in trial conduct across regions can negatively impact the power to detect an 
overall treatment effect as well as the ability to examine consistency of treatment effects 
at the analysis stage.  Important factors impacting the quality of the trial, such as follow-
up of study subjects, should be managed consistently across regions, and issues identified 
during the trial corrected as early as possible.  
 
During the conduct of an MRCT, trial monitoring and blinded data review may uncover 
various issues that require modifications to be made to the analysis plan for the trial.  For 
example, it might be necessary in an MRCT for better assessment to modify pooling strat-
egies for regions or subpopulations, that were carefully defined during trial planning, after 
sufficient data have been accumulated on the baseline characteristics (e.g., intrinsic and 
extrinsic factors) of the multi-regional population.  However, such changes should be 
justified, discussed with the relevant regulatory authorities, and carried out in a way that 
preserves trial integrity.  
 
2.2.8 
Selection of Comparators  
The choice of control groups should be considered in the context of the available standard 
therapies, the adequacy of the evidence to support the chosen design, and ethical consid-
erations.  The selection of comparators should be discussed and agreed with the relevant 
regulatory authorities.  Comparators in MRCTs should in principle be the same in all 
participating regions.  Due to the complexity in setting up MRCTs, some key points are 
addressed in the following paragraphs, focusing on practical and ethical issues associated 
with the use of comparators:  


--- Page 27 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
24 
 The choice of comparators should be justified in the study protocol based on sci-
entific and other relevant information, including international treatment guide-
lines.  
 Active controls should in principle be dosed and administered in the same way in 
all regions.  If the approved dosing regimen of active comparators are different 
among regions, the proposed study dosing regimen should be justified by availa-
ble data, and the justification should be included in the study protocol.  Addition-
ally, the impact of such a dosage difference on analysis and evaluation of MRCT 
data should be considered in the planning stage.  
 The same dosage form (e.g., liquid drugs vs tablets) for active comparators should 
generally be used among regions participating in MRCTs to ensure consistency 
of treatment effects and data interpretability.  Different dosage forms could be 
used if the dissolution profiles and bioavailability are well-characterised, and dif-
ferences are negligible.  
 In order to ensure the consistent quality of the active comparators, it is recom-
mended to use the same source in all participating regions.  When active compar-
ators from different sources are used in MRCTs, justification should be provided 
(e.g., in form of Certification of Analysis or report from the manufacturer on 
equivalence or dissolution studies), to ensure that the comparator has the same 
quality in all participating regions.  
 The most comprehensive product information used in a region is recommended to 
be used consistently in all participating regions.  If the product information differs 
from local product information (e.g., differences in the warnings, adverse reac-
tions), this should be explained in the local informed consent form.  
 If different drugs in the same or similar drug class are proposed to be used as 
active comparators, justification should be provided in the protocol based on 
available scientific evidence.  
The above considerations may also be applicable in case of comparators which are se-
lected based on investigator's choice of local standard care.   
 
Active comparators in MRCTs should ideally be approved in all participating regions.  
However, there could be situations where active comparators used in MRCTs are not 
approved or not available in specific regions, but have been approved and available in 


--- Page 28 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
25 
some ICH regions.  The justification (including safety considerations) for the use of an 
unapproved drug should therefore be described in the protocol based on scientific infor-
mation, treatment guidelines and other relevant documents.  Development status (e.g. no 
plan for development, under development, under regulatory review) of the unapproved 
drug in the region should also be described in the protocol.  Plans for post-study treatment, 
including continued access to unapproved comparator, should be considered and provided 
to the patient in the informed consent.  
 
2.2.9 
Handling Concomitant Medications  
In general, drugs used concomitantly with the investigational drug should be the same 
throughout the regions to the extent possible, but there may be some differences in the 
drugs and/or doses actually used due to variations in medical practices.  This could be 
acceptable if not expected to substantially impact trial results.  The clinical trial protocol 
should specify allowable and not allowable concomitant medications and doses.  
 
Concomitant medications may be required in the protocol as an important part of the 
treatment.  In circumstances where approved drugs are combined with an investigational 
drug (e.g., a combination regimen of anticancer drugs) the same dosage regimen in all 
regions should generally be applied.  If required by protocol, concomitant medications 
that are not approved in a region should have their use justified based on scientific infor-
mation, treatment guidelines and other relevant documents.  This could include documen-
tation that the concomitant medication is approved in at least one of the ICH regions.  It 
should generally be allowed to use an unapproved concomitant medication, however the 
impact of using the unapproved concomitant medication in the relevant regions should be 
discussed with regulatory authorities and described in the protocol.  The medication will 
need to be supplied in regions in which it is otherwise not available, only available at 
different strength and/or dosage form, or if a region cannot secure continuous supply dur-
ing the course of the trial.  
Regional differences in the use and dosing of concomitant medications that may have 
impact on drug responses should be considered in advance and these medications includ-
ing changes in doses should be documented during the trial.  The previous considerations 
may also be applicable to concomitant therapy other than medications (e.g., compression 
stockings in the post-operative setting, medical devices).  


--- Page 29 ---
ICH E17 Guideline 
26 
3. GLOSSARY  
Consistency of treatment effect:  
A lack of clinically relevant differences between treatment effects in different regions or 
subpopulations of an MRCT 
Multi-Regional Clinical Trial, MRCT:  
A clinical trial conducted in more than one region under a single protocol.  
Region:  
A geographical region, country or regulatory region  
Regulatory Region: 
A region comprised of countries for which a common set of regulatory requirements ap-
plies for drug approval (e.g., EU). 
Pooled regions:  
Pooling some geographical regions, countries or regulatory regions at the planning stage, 
if subjects in those regions are thought to be similar enough with respect to intrinsic and/or 
extrinsic factors relevant to the disease and/or drug under study. 
Pooled subpopulations:  
Pooling a subset of the subjects from a particular region with similarly defined subsets 
from other regions whose members share one or more intrinsic or extrinsic factors im-
portant for the drug development programme at the planning stage.  Pooled subpopula-
tions is assumed as ethnicity-related subgroup particular important in the MRCT setting.  
