
--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL FOR HARMONISATION OF TECHNICAL 
REQUIREMENTS FOR PHARMACEUTICALS FOR HUMAN USE 
 
 
ICH HARMONISED GUIDELINE 
 
 
ADDENDUM ON ESTIMANDS AND SENSITIVITY 
ANALYSIS IN CLINICAL TRIALS 
TO THE GUIDELINE ON STATISTICAL PRINCIPLES FOR 
CLINICAL TRIALS 
E9(R1) 
 
 
Final version 
Adopted on 20 November 2019 
 
 
 
This Guideline has been developed by the appropriate ICH Expert Working Group and 
has been subject to consultation by the regulatory parties, in accordance with the ICH 
Process.  At Step 4 of the Process the final draft is recommended for adoption to the 
regulatory bodies of ICH regions. 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
 
E9(R1) 
Document History 
 
Code 
History 
Date 
E9(R1) 
Adopted by the Regulatory Members of the ICH 
Assembly under Step 4 (document dated 17 
November 2019). 
20 November 
2019 
E9(R1) 
Endorsement by the ICH Assembly under Step 2 
and release for public consultation. 
30 August 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal notice: This document is protected by copyright and may, with the exception of the ICH 
logo, be used, reproduced, incorporated into other works, adapted, modified, translated or 
distributed under a public license provided that ICH's copyright in the document is acknowledged 
at all times.  In case of any adaption, modification or translation of the document, reasonable 
steps must be taken to clearly label, demarcate or otherwise identify that changes were made to 
or based on the original document.  Any impression that the adaption, modification or translation 
of the original document is endorsed or sponsored by the ICH must be avoided. 
The document is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind.  In no event shall the ICH or the 
authors of the original document be liable for any claim, damages or other liability arising from 
the use of the document. 
The above-mentioned permissions do not apply to content supplied by third parties.  Therefore, 
for documents where the copyright vests in a third party, permission for reproduction must be 
obtained from this copyright holder. 


--- Page 3 ---
 
 
ICH HARMONISED GUIDELINE  
ADDENDUM ON ESTIMANDS AND SENSITIVITY 
ANALYSIS IN CLINICAL TRIALS                                  
TO THE GUIDELINE ON STATISTICAL PRINCIPLES FOR 
CLINICAL TRIALS 
ICH E9(R1) 
ICH Consensus Guideline 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
A.1. PURPOSE AND SCOPE .............................................................................................. 2 
A.2. A FRAMEWORK TO ALIGN PLANNING, DESIGN, CONDUCT, ANALYSIS 
AND INTERPRETATION .......................................................................................... 4 
A.3. ESTIMANDS ................................................................................................................. 5 
A.3.1. Intercurrent Events to be Reflected in the Clinical Question of Interest ....................... 5 
A.3.2. Strategies for Addressing Intercurrent Events when Defining the Clinical Question of 
Interest ............................................................................................................................ 7 
A.3.3. Estimand Attributes ........................................................................................................ 9 
A.3.4. Considerations for Constructing an Estimand.............................................................. 10 
A.4. IMPACT ON TRIAL DESIGN AND CONDUCT .................................................. 13 
A.5. IMPACT ON TRIAL ANALYSIS ............................................................................ 15 
A.5.1. Main Estimation ........................................................................................................... 15 
A.5.2. Sensitivity Analysis ...................................................................................................... 17 
A.5.2.1. Role of Sensitivity Analysis ............................................................................ 17 
A.5.2.2. Choice of Sensitivity Analysis ........................................................................ 17 
A.5.3. Supplementary Analysis............................................................................................... 18 
A.6. DOCUMENTING ESTIMANDS AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS ..................... 18 
GLOSSARY............................................................................................................................ 20 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 4 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
2 
 
A.1. 
PURPOSE AND SCOPE 
To properly inform decision making by pharmaceutical companies, regulators, patients, 
physicians and other stakeholders, clear descriptions of the benefits and risks of a treatment 
(medicine) for a given medical condition should be made available.  Without such clarity, there 
is a concern that the reported “treatment effect” will be misunderstood.  This addendum 
presents a structured framework to strengthen the dialogue between disciplines involved in the 
formulation of clinical trial objectives, design, conduct, analysis and interpretation, as well as 
between sponsor and regulator regarding the treatment effect(s) of interest that a clinical trial 
should address. 
Precision in describing a treatment effect of interest is facilitated by constructing the 
“estimand” (see Glossary; A.3.) corresponding to a clinical question of interest. Clarity requires 
a thoughtful envisioning of “intercurrent events” (see Glossary; A.3.1.) such as discontinuation 
of assigned treatment, use of an additional or alternative treatment and terminal events such as 
death.  The description of an estimand should reflect the clinical question of interest in respect 
of these intercurrent events, and this addendum introduces strategies to reflect different 
questions of interest that might be posed.  The choice of strategies can influence how more 
conventional attributes of a trial are reflected when describing the clinical question, for 
example the treatments, population or the variable (endpoint) of interest. 
The statistical analysis of clinical trial data should be aligned to the estimand.  This addendum 
clarifies the role of “sensitivity analysis” (see Glossary) to explore robustness of conclusions 
from the main statistical analysis. 
Throughout the addendum, references to the original ICH E9 are made using x.y.  References 
within this addendum are made using A.x.y. 
This addendum clarifies and extends ICH E9 in respect of the following topics.  Firstly, ICH 
E9 introduced the Intention-To-Treat (ITT) principle in connection with the effect of a 
treatment policy in a randomised controlled trial, whereby subjects are followed, assessed and 
analysed irrespective of their compliance to the planned course of treatment, indicating that 
preservation of randomisation provides a secure foundation for statistical tests.  Multiple 
consequences arising from the ITT principle can be distinguished.  Firstly, that the trial analysis 
should include all subjects relevant for the research question.  Secondly, that subjects should 
be included in the analysis as randomised.  Taken directly from the definition of the ITT 
principle (see ICH E9 Glossary), a third consequence is that subjects should be followed-up 
and assessed regardless of adherence to the planned course of treatment and that those 
assessments should be used in the analysis.  It remains undisputed that randomisation is a 
cornerstone of controlled clinical trials and that analysis should aim at exploiting the 
advantages of randomisation to the greatest extent possible.  However, the question remains 
whether estimating an effect in accordance with the ITT principle always represents the 
treatment effect of greatest relevance to regulatory and clinical decision making. The 
framework outlined in this addendum gives a basis for describing different treatment effects 


--- Page 5 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
3 
 
and some points to consider for the design and analysis of trials to give estimates of these 
treatment effects that are reliable for decision making. 
Secondly, issues considered generally under data handling and “missing data” (see Glossary) 
are re-visited.  Two important distinctions are made.  Firstly, the addendum distinguishes 
discontinuation of randomised treatment from study withdrawal.  The former represents an 
intercurrent event, to be addressed in the precise specification of the trial objective through the 
estimand.  The latter gives rise to missing data to be addressed in the statistical analysis.  
Consider, for example, a subject switching treatments in an oncology trial, and a subject for 
whom no outcome event can be observed because the trial is completed.  The former represents 
an intercurrent event and the clinical question of interest in respect of that should be clear.  The 
latter is administrative censoring which needs to be addressed as a missing data problem in the 
statistical analysis.  Having clarity in the estimand gives a basis for planning which data need 
to be collected and hence which data, when not collected, present a missing data problem to be 
addressed in the statistical analysis.  In turn, methods to address the problem presented by 
missing data can be selected to align with the estimand.  Secondly, the addendum highlights 
the distinct consequences of different intercurrent events.  Events such as discontinuation of 
treatment, switching between treatments, or use of an additional medication may render the 
later measurements of the variable irrelevant or difficult to interpret even when they can be 
collected.  Measurements after a subject dies do not exist. 
Thirdly, issues related to the concept of analysis sets are considered in the framework.  Section 
5.2. strongly recommends that analysis of superiority trials be based on the full analysis set, 
defined to be as close as possible to including all randomised subjects.  However, trials often 
include repeated measurements on the same subject.  Elimination of some planned 
measurements on some subjects, perhaps because the measurement is considered irrelevant or 
difficult to interpret, can have similar consequences to excluding subjects altogether from the 
full analysis set, i.e. that the initial randomisation is not fully preserved.  A consequence of this 
is that the theoretical benefits that randomisation confers on testing hypotheses about treatment 
effects and the practical benefits of balancing confounding factors at baseline can be 
diminished.  In addition, a meaningful value of the outcome variable might not exist, as when 
the subject dies.  Section 5.2. does not directly address these issues.  Clarity is introduced by 
carefully defining the treatment effect of interest in a way that determines both the population 
of subjects to be included in the estimation of that treatment effect and the observations from 
each subject to be included in the analysis considering the occurrence of intercurrent events.  
The meaning and role of an analysis of the per protocol set is also re-visited in this addendum; 
in particular whether the need to explore the impact of protocol violations and deviations can 
be addressed in a way that is less biased and more interpretable than naïve analysis of the per 
protocol set. 
Finally, the concept of robustness (see 1.2.) is given expanded discussion under the heading of 
sensitivity analysis.  A distinction is made between the sensitivity of inference to the 
assumptions of a chosen method of analysis and the sensitivity to the choice of analytic 
approach more broadly.  With precise specification of an agreed estimand and a method of 


--- Page 6 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
4 
 
analysis that is both aligned to the estimand and pre-specified to a level of detail that it can be 
replicated precisely by a third party, regulatory interest can focus on sensitivity to deviations 
from assumptions and limitations in the data in respect of a particular analysis. 
The principles outlined in this addendum are relevant whenever a treatment effect is estimated, 
or a hypothesis related to a treatment effect is tested, whether related to efficacy or safety.  
While the main focus is on randomised clinical trials, the principles are also applicable for 
single arm trials and observational studies.  The framework applies to any data type, including 
longitudinal, time-to-first event, and recurrent event data.  Regulatory interest in the application 
of the principles outlined will be greater for confirmatory clinical trials and, where used to 
generate confirmatory conclusions, for data integrated across trials. 
 
A.2. 
A FRAMEWORK TO ALIGN PLANNING, DESIGN, CONDUCT, ANALYSIS 
AND INTERPRETATION 
Trial planning should proceed in sequence (Figure 1).  Clear trial objectives should be 
translated into key clinical questions of interest by defining suitable estimands.  An estimand 
defines the target of estimation for a particular trial objective (i.e. “what is to be estimated”, 
see A.3.).  A suitable method of estimation (i.e. the analytic approach, referred to as the main 
“estimator”, see Glossary) can then be selected (see A.5.1.).  The main estimator will be 
underpinned by certain assumptions.  To explore the robustness of inferences from the main 
estimator to deviations from its underlying assumptions, a sensitivity analysis should be 
conducted, in the form of one or more analyses, targeting the same estimand (see A.5.2.). 
 
 
Figure 1: Aligning target of estimation, method of estimation, and sensitivity analysis, for 
a given trial objective 


--- Page 7 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
5 
 
 
This framework enables proper trial planning that clearly distinguishes between the target of 
estimation (trial objective, estimand), the method of estimation (estimator), the numerical result 
(“estimate”, see Glossary), and a sensitivity analysis.  This will assist sponsors in planning 
trials, regulators in their reviews, and will enhance the interactions between these parties when 
discussing the suitability of clinical trial designs, and the interpretation of clinical trial results. 
The specification of appropriate estimands (see A.3.) will usually be the main determinant for 
aspects of trial design, conduct (see A.4.) and analysis (see A.5.). 
 
A.3. 
ESTIMANDS 
Central questions for drug development and licensing are to establish the existence, and to 
estimate the magnitude, of treatment effects: how the outcome of treatment compares to what 
would have happened to the same subjects under alternative treatment (i.e. had they not 
received the treatment, or had they received a different treatment).  An estimand is a precise 
description of the treatment effect reflecting the clinical question posed by a given clinical trial 
objective.  It summarises at a population level what the outcomes would be in the same patients 
under different treatment conditions being compared.  The targets of estimation are to be 
defined in advance of a clinical trial.  Once defined, a trial can be designed to enable reliable 
estimation of the targeted treatment effect. 
The description of an estimand involves precise specifications of certain attributes, which 
should be developed based not only on clinical considerations but also on how intercurrent 
events are reflected in the clinical question of interest.  Section A.3.1. introduces intercurrent 
events.  Section A.3.2. introduces strategies to describe the question of interest in respect of 
intercurrent events.  Section A.3.3. describes the attributes of an estimand and Section A.3.4. 
gives considerations for its construction.  It is critically important to understand the differences 
between the strategies and to precisely articulate which are used in constructing the estimand.   
 
A.3.1. 
Intercurrent Events to be Reflected in the Clinical Question of Interest 
Intercurrent events are events occurring after treatment initiation that affect either the 
interpretation or the existence of the measurements associated with the clinical question of 
interest.  It is necessary to address intercurrent events when describing the clinical question of 
interest in order to precisely define the treatment effect that is to be estimated. 
Intercurrent events need to be considered in the description of a treatment effect because 
measurements of the variable can be influenced by the intercurrent event and the occurrence of 
the intercurrent event may depend on treatment.  For example, two patients might be exposed 
initially to the same treatment and provide the same measure of outcome, but if one patient has 
received additional medication, the information that the two measures give about the treatment 
differs between the two patients.  Furthermore, whether a patient needs to take additional 


--- Page 8 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
6 
 
medication, and whether or not a patient can continue taking treatment, may depend on the 
treatment to which they are exposed.  Unlike missing data, intercurrent events are not to be 
thought of as a drawback to be avoided in clinical trials.  Discontinuation of prescribed 
treatment, use of additional medication, and other such events may occur in clinical practice as 
they do in clinical trials, and their occurrence needs to be considered explicitly when defining 
the clinical question of interest. 
Examples of intercurrent events that can affect interpretation of the measurements include 
discontinuation of assigned treatment and use of an additional or alternative therapy.  Use of 
an additional or alternative therapy can take multiple forms, including change to background 
or concomitant therapy and switching between treatments of interest.  Examples of intercurrent 
events that would affect the existence of the measurements include terminal events such as 
death and leg amputation (when assessing symptoms of diabetic foot ulcers), when these events 
are not part of the variable itself.  Certain clinical events can also be intercurrent events, when 
their occurrence, or non-occurrence, defines a principal stratum of interest (see A.3.2.).  
Examples include tumour shrinkage defining objective response when assessing a treatment 
effect on duration of response in oncology and occurrence of infection when assessing a 
treatment effect on severity of infections occurring after vaccination of initially uninfected 
subjects. 
An intercurrent event might be identified solely by the event itself, such as discontinuation of 
treatment, or might be more granular.  For example, the reason for the event might be specified, 
such as discontinuation of treatment due to toxicity, or due to lack of efficacy; the event might 
require to be of certain magnitude or degree, such as use of additional medication exceeding a 
specified duration or dose; or the timing of the event might be specified, perhaps in relation to 
its proximity to the assessment of the variable.  Some events will affect interpretation of the 
outcome measurements indefinitely, such as discontinuation of treatment, whilst others will 
affect interpretation only temporarily, such as short-term use of additional treatment.  Indeed, 
additional or alternative treatments can be diverse; either replacing or supplementing a 
treatment on which the subject is experiencing inadequate benefit, as an alternative where a 
subject is not tolerating their assigned treatment, or as a short-term acute treatment to manage 
a temporary flare in disease symptoms.  In a clinical trial, additional or alternative treatments 
are often identified as e.g. background treatment, rescue medication, prohibited medication, 
distinguishing their different roles and allowing them to be considered separately.  The 
additional granularity, identifying different intercurrent events, is required if different 
strategies are to be used.  If the intercurrent event for which a strategy needs to be selected 
depends not only on, for example, failure to continue with treatment, but also on the reason, 
magnitude or timing associated with that failure, this additional information should be defined 
and recorded accurately in the clinical trial.  The description of intercurrent events might in 
theory reflect very specific details of treatment and follow-up, such as a single missed dose of 
a chronic treatment or a dose taken at the wrong time of day.  Where such specific criteria are 
not expected to affect interpretation of the variable, they would not need to be addressed as 
intercurrent events. 


--- Page 9 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
7 
 
As indicated above, consideration of intercurrent events is required when constructing the 
estimand.  Because the estimand is to be defined in advance of trial design, neither study 
withdrawal nor other reasons for missing data (e.g. administrative censoring in trials with 
survival outcomes) are in themselves intercurrent events.  Subjects who withdraw from the trial 
may have experienced an intercurrent event before withdrawal. 
 
A.3.2. 
Strategies for Addressing Intercurrent Events when Defining the Clinical Question of 
Interest 
Descriptions of various strategies are listed below, each reflecting a different clinical question 
of interest in respect of a particular intercurrent event.  Whether or not the naming convention 
is used, it is required that the choices of strategy are unambiguously clear once the estimand is 
constructed.  It is not necessary to use the same strategy to address all intercurrent events.  
Indeed, different strategies will often be used to reflect the clinical question of interest in 
respect of different intercurrent events.  Section A.3.4. gives some considerations on selecting 
strategies to construct an estimand. 
Treatment policy strategy 
The occurrence of the intercurrent event is considered irrelevant in defining the treatment effect 
of interest: the value for the variable of interest is used regardless of whether or not the 
intercurrent event occurs.  For example, when specifying how to address use of additional 
medication as an intercurrent event, the values of the variable of interest are used whether or 
not the patient takes additional medication. 
If applied in relation to whether or not a patient continues treatment, and whether or not a 
patient experiences changes in other treatments (e.g. background or concomitant treatments), 
the intercurrent event is considered to be part of the treatments being compared.  In that case, 
this reflects the comparison described in the ICH E9 Glossary (under ITT Principle) as the 
effect of a treatment policy. 
In general, the treatment policy strategy cannot be implemented for intercurrent events that are 
terminal events, since values for the variable after the intercurrent event do not exist.  For 
example, an estimand based on this strategy cannot be constructed with respect to a variable 
that cannot be measured due to death. 
Hypothetical strategies 
A scenario is envisaged in which the intercurrent event would not occur: the value of the 
variable to reflect the clinical question of interest is the value which the variable would have 
taken in the hypothetical scenario defined. 
A wide variety of hypothetical scenarios can be envisaged, but some scenarios are likely to be 
of more clinical or regulatory interest than others. For example, it may be of clinical or 
regulatory importance to consider the effect of a treatment under different conditions from 
those of the trial that can be carried out.  Specifically, when additional medication must be 


--- Page 10 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
8 
 
made available for ethical reasons, a treatment effect of interest might concern the outcomes if 
the additional medication was not available. A very different hypothetical scenario might 
postulate that intercurrent events would not occur, or that different intercurrent events would 
occur.  For example, for a subject that will suffer an adverse event and discontinue treatment, 
it might be considered whether the same subject would not have the adverse event or could 
continue treatment in spite of the adverse event.  The clinical and regulatory interest of such 
hypotheticals is limited and would usually depend on a clear understanding of why and how 
the intercurrent event or its consequences would be expected to be different in clinical practice 
than in the clinical trial. 
If a hypothetical strategy is proposed, it should be made clear what hypothetical scenario is 
envisaged.  For example, wording such as “if the patient does not take additional medication” 
might lead to confusion as to whether the patient hypothetically does not take additional 
medication because it is not available or because the particular patient is supposed not to require 
it. 
Composite variable strategies 
This relates to the variable of interest (see A.3.3.).  An intercurrent event is considered in itself 
to be informative about the patient’s outcome and is therefore incorporated into the definition 
of the variable.  For example, a patient who discontinues treatment because of toxicity may be 
considered not to have been successfully treated.  If the outcome variable was already success 
or failure, discontinuation of treatment for toxicity would simply be considered another mode 
of failure.  Composite variable strategies do not need to be limited to dichotomous outcomes, 
however.  For example, in a trial measuring physical functioning, a variable might be 
constructed using outcomes on a continuous scale, with subjects who die being attributed a 
value reflecting the lack of ability to function.  Composite variable strategies can be viewed as 
implementing the intention-to-treat principle in some cases where the original measurement of 
the variable might not exist or might not be meaningful, but where the intercurrent event itself 
meaningfully describes the patient’s outcome, such as when the patient dies. 
Terminal events, such as death, are perhaps the most salient examples of the need for the 
composite strategy.  If a treatment saves lives, its effect on various measures in surviving 
patients may be of interest, but it would be inappropriate to say that the summary measure of 
interest was only the average value of some numerical measure in survivors.  The outcome of 
interest is survival along with the numerical measures.  For example, progression-free survival 
in oncology trials measures the treatment effect on a combination of the growth of the tumour 
and survival. 
While on treatment strategies 
For this strategy, response to treatment prior to the occurrence of the intercurrent event is of 
interest.  Terminology for this strategy will depend on the intercurrent event of interest; e.g. 
“while alive”, when considering death as an intercurrent event. 
If a variable is measured repeatedly, its values up to the time of the intercurrent event may be 
considered relevant for the clinical question, rather than the value at the same fixed timepoint 


--- Page 11 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
9 
 
for all subjects.  The same applies to the occurrence of a binary outcome of interest up to the 
time of the intercurrent event.  For example, subjects with a terminal illness may discontinue a 
purely symptomatic treatment because they die, yet the success of the treatment can be 
measured based on the effect on symptoms before death.  Alternatively, subjects might 
discontinue treatment and, in some circumstances, it will be of interest to assess the risk of an 
adverse drug reaction while the patient is exposed to treatment. 
Like the composite variable strategy, the while on treatment strategy can hence be thought of 
as impacting the definition of the variable, in this case by restricting the observation time of 
interest to the time before the intercurrent event.  Particular care is required if the occurrence 
of the intercurrent event differs between the treatments being compared (see A.3.3.). 
Principal stratum strategies 
This relates to the population of interest (see A.3.3.).  The target population might be taken to 
be the “principal stratum” (see Glossary) in which an intercurrent event would occur. 
Alternatively, the target population might be taken to be the principal stratum in which an 
intercurrent event would not occur.  The clinical question of interest relates to the treatment 
effect only within the principal stratum.  For example, it might be desired to know a treatment 
effect on severity of infections in the principal stratum of patients becoming infected after 
vaccination.  Alternatively, a toxicity might prevent some patients from continuing the test 
treatment, but it would be desired to know the treatment effect among patients who are able to 
tolerate the test treatment. 
It is important to distinguish “principal stratification” (see Glossary), which is based on 
potential intercurrent events (for example, subjects who would discontinue therapy if assigned 
to the test product), from subsetting based on actual intercurrent events (subjects who 
discontinue therapy on their assigned treatment).  The subset of subjects who experience an 
intercurrent event on the test treatment will often be a different subset from those who 
experience the same intercurrent event on control.  Treatment effects defined by comparing 
outcomes in these subsets confound the effects of the different treatments with the differences 
in outcomes possibly due to the differing characteristics of the subjects. 
 
A.3.3. 
Estimand Attributes 
The attributes below are used to construct the estimand, defining the treatment effect of interest.   
The treatment condition of interest and, as appropriate, the alternative treatment condition to 
which comparison will be made (referred to as “treatment” through the remainder of this 
document).  These might be individual interventions, combinations of interventions 
administered concurrently, e.g. as add-on to standard of care, or might consist of an overall 
regimen involving a complex sequence of interventions. (see Treatment Policy and 
Hypothetical strategies under A.3.2.). 


--- Page 12 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
10 
 
The population of patients targeted by the clinical question.  This will be represented by the 
entire trial population, a subgroup defined by a particular characteristic measured at baseline, 
or a principal stratum defined by the occurrence (or non-occurrence, depending on context) of 
a specific intercurrent event (see Principal Stratum strategies under A.3.2.). 
The variable (or endpoint) to be obtained for each patient that is required to address the clinical 
question.  The specification of the variable might include whether the patient experiences an 
intercurrent event (see Composite Variable and While on Treatment strategies under A.3.2.). 
Precise specifications of treatment, population and variable are likely to address many of the 
intercurrent events considered in sponsor and regulator discussions of the clinical question of 
interest.  The clinical question of interest in respect of any other intercurrent events will 
usually be reflected using the strategies introduced as treatment policy, hypothetical or while 
on treatment. 
Finally, a population-level summary for the variable should be specified, providing a basis 
for comparison between treatment conditions. 
When defining a treatment effect of interest, it is important to ensure that the definition 
identifies an effect due to treatment and not due to potential confounders such as differences in 
duration of observation or patient characteristics. 
 
A.3.4. 
Considerations for Constructing an Estimand 
The clinical questions of interest and associated estimands should be specified at the initial 
stages of planning any clinical trial.  Precise specification of objectives for most trials will need 
to reflect discontinuation of treatment and use of additional or alternative treatments.  In some 
settings terminal events, such as death, should be addressed.  Some trial objectives can only be 
described with reference to clinical events, for example the duration of response in subjects 
who achieve a response. 
The construction of an estimand should consider what is of clinical relevance for the particular 
treatment in the particular therapeutic setting.  Considerations include the disease under study, 
the clinical context (e.g. the availability of alternative treatments), the administration of 
treatment (e.g. one-off dosing, short-term treatment or chronic dosing) and the goal of 
treatment (e.g. prevention, disease modification, symptom control).  Also important is whether 
an estimate of the treatment effect can be derived that is reliable for decision making.  For 
example, a clinical question on the treatment effect on clinical outcome regardless of which 
other therapies are to be used before that outcome is experienced differs to a clinical question 
on the treatment effect had no additional medication been available.  Depending on the setting, 
either might represent a clinical question of interest.  However, in both cases, a clinical trial 
designed to estimate these treatment effects will often include the possibility to use additional 
medications if medically required.  For the former question, values after the use of additional 
treatment will be relevant.  For the latter question, values after the additional treatment are not 


--- Page 13 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
11 
 
directly relevant since the values also reflect the impact of that additional medication.  It should 
be agreed that reliable estimation is possible before the choice of estimand is finalised.  This 
includes, for the latter question, the methods to replace observations that are not to be used in 
the analysis. 
When constructing the estimand it is necessary to have a clear understanding of the treatment 
to which the clinical question of interest pertains (see A.3.3.).  Clear specifications for the 
treatments of interest might already reflect multiple relevant intercurrent events.  Specifically, 
a treatment might already reflect the clinical question of interest in respect of changes in 
background treatment, concomitant medications, use of additional or later-line therapies, 
treatment-switching and conditioning regimens.  For example, it is possible to specify 
treatment as intervention A added to background therapy B, dosed as required. In that case, 
changes to the dose of background therapy B would not need to be considered as an intercurrent 
event.  However, the use of an additional therapy would need to be considered as an intercurrent 
event.  If use of any additional medication is also reflected, using the treatment policy strategy 
for example, then treatment might be specified as intervention A added to background therapy 
B, dosed as required, and with additional medication, as required.  Alternatively, if the 
treatment is specified as intervention A, then both changes in background therapy and use of 
additional therapy would be addressed as intercurrent events.   
Discussions should also consider whether specifications for the population and variable 
attributes should be used to reflect the clinical question of interest in respect of any intercurrent 
events.  Strategies can then be considered for any other intercurrent events.  Usually an iterative 
process will be necessary to reach an estimand that is of clinical relevance for decision making, 
and for which a reliable estimate can be made.  Some estimands, in particular those for which 
the measurements taken are relevant to the clinical question, can often be robustly estimated 
making few assumptions.  Other estimands may require methods of analysis with more specific 
assumptions that may be more difficult to justify and that may be more sensitive to plausible 
changes in those assumptions (see A.5.1.).  Where significant issues exist to develop an 
appropriate trial design or to derive an adequately reliable estimate for a particular estimand, 
an alternative estimand, trial design and method of analysis would need to be considered. 
Avoiding or over-simplifying the process of discussing and constructing an estimand risks 
misalignment between trial objectives, trial design, data collection and method of analysis.  
Whilst an inability to derive a reliable estimate might preclude certain choices of strategy, it is 
important to proceed sequentially from the trial objective and an understanding of the clinical 
question of interest, and not for the choice of data collection and method of analysis to 
determine the estimand. 
The experimental situation should also be considered.  If the management of subjects (e.g. dose 
adjustment for intolerance, rescue treatment for inadequate response, burden of clinical trial 
assessments) under a clinical trial protocol is justified to be different to that which is anticipated 
in clinical practice, this might be reflected in the construction of the estimand. 


--- Page 14 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
12 
 
Once constructed, the estimand should define a target of estimation clearly and unambiguously.  
Consider an intercurrent event of discontinuation of treatment; it is of utmost importance to 
distinguish between treatment effects of interest based on the principal stratum of patients who 
would be able to continue if administered the test treatment and the effect during continued 
treatment.  Furthermore, neither of these should be taken to represent an effect if all patients 
can continue with treatment.   
As stated above, when using the hypothetical strategy, some conditions are likely to be more 
acceptable for regulatory decision making than others.  The hypothetical conditions described 
should therefore be justified for the quantification of an interpretable treatment effect that is 
relevant to inform the decisions to be taken by regulators, and use of the medicine in clinical 
practice.  The question of what the values for the variable of interest would have been if rescue 
medication had not been available may be an important one.  In contrast, the question of what 
the values for the variable of interest would have been under the hypothetical condition that 
subjects who discontinued treatment because of adverse drug reaction had in fact continued 
with treatment, might not be justifiable as being of clinical or regulatory interest.  A clinical 
question of interest based on the effect if all subjects had been able to continue with treatment 
is not well-defined without a thorough discussion of the hypothetical conditions under which 
it is supposed that they would have continued.  The inability to tolerate a treatment may 
constitute, in itself, evidence of an inability to achieve a favourable outcome.   
Characterising beneficial effects using estimands based on the treatment policy strategy might 
also be more generally acceptable to support regulatory decision making, specifically in 
settings where estimands based on alternative strategies might be considered of greater clinical 
interest, but main and sensitivity estimators cannot be identified that are agreed to support a 
reliable estimate or robust inference.  An estimand based on the treatment policy strategy might 
offer the possibility to obtain a reliable estimate of a treatment effect that is still relevant.  In 
this situation, it is recommended to also include those estimands that are considered to be of 
greater clinical relevance and to present the resulting estimates along with a discussion of the 
limitations, in terms of trial design or statistical analysis, for that specific approach.  When 
constructing estimands based on the treatment policy strategy, inference can be complemented 
by defining an additional estimand and analysis pertaining to each intercurrent event for which 
the strategy is used; for example, contrasting both the treatment effect on a symptom score and 
the proportion of subjects using additional medication under each treatment.  Similarly, an 
estimand using a while on treatment strategy should usually be accompanied by the additional 
information on the time to intercurrent event distributions, and an estimand based on a principal 
stratum would usefully be accompanied by information on the proportion of patients in that 
stratum, if available.   
The considerations informing the construction of estimand to support regulatory decision 
making based on a non-inferiority or equivalence objective may differ to those for the choice 
of estimand for a superiority objective.  As explained in ICH E9, the problem facing the 
regulator in their decision making is different when based on non-inferiority or equivalence 
studies compared to superiority studies.  In Section 3.3.2. it is stated that such trials are not 


--- Page 15 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
13 
 
conservative in nature and the importance of minimising the number of protocol violations and 
deviations, non-adherence and study withdrawals is indicated.  In Section 5.2.1.  it is described 
that the result of the Full Analysis Set (FAS) is generally not conservative and that its role in 
such trials should be considered very seriously.  Estimands that are constructed with one or 
more intercurrent events accounted for using the treatment policy strategy present similar 
issues for non-inferiority and equivalence trials as those related to analysis of the FAS under 
the ITT principle.  Responses in both treatment groups can appear more similar following 
discontinuation of randomised treatment or use of another medication for reasons that are 
unrelated to the similarity of the initially randomised treatments.  Estimands could be 
constructed to directly address those intercurrent events which can lead to the attenuation of 
differences between treatment arms (e.g. discontinuations from treatment and use of additional 
medications).  When selecting strategies, it might be important to distinguish between trials 
designed to detect whether differences exist between treatments containing the same or similar 
active substance (e.g. comparison of a biosimilar to a reference treatment) and trials where a 
non-inferiority or equivalence hypothesis is used in order to establish and quantify evidence of 
efficacy.  An estimand can be constructed to target a treatment effect that prioritises sensitivity 
to detect differences between treatments, if appropriate for regulatory decision making. 
 
A.4. 
IMPACT ON TRIAL DESIGN AND CONDUCT  
The design of a trial needs to be aligned to the estimands that reflect the trial objectives.  A 
trial design that is suitable for one estimand might not be suitable for other estimands of 
potential importance.  Clear definitions for the estimands on which quantification of treatments 
effects will be based should inform the choices that are made in relation to trial design.  This 
includes determining the inclusion and exclusion criteria that identify the target population, the 
treatments, including the medications that are allowed and those that are prohibited in the 
protocol, and other aspects of patient management and data collection.  If interest lies, for 
example, in understanding the treatment effect regardless of whether a particular intercurrent 
event occurs, a trial in which the variable is collected for all subjects is appropriate.  
Alternatively, if the estimands that are required to support regulatory decision making do not 
require the collection of the variable after an intercurrent event, then the benefits of collecting 
such data for other estimands should be weighed against any complications and potential 
drawbacks of the collection. 
Efforts should be made to collect all data that are relevant to support estimation, including data 
that inform the characterisation, occurrence and timing of intercurrent events.  Data cannot 
always be collected. Certainly, subjects cannot be retained in a trial against their will, and in 
some trials missing data for some subjects is inevitable by design, such as administrative 
censoring in trials with survival outcomes.  On the contrary, the occurrence of intercurrent 
events such as discontinuation of treatment, treatment switching, or use of additional 
medication, does not imply that the variable cannot be measured thereafter, though the 
measures may not be relevant.  For terminal events such as death, the variable cannot be 


--- Page 16 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
14 
 
measured after the intercurrent event, but neither should these data generally be regarded as 
missing. 
Not collecting any data needed to assess an estimand results in a missing data problem for 
subsequent statistical inference.  The validity of statistical analyses may rest upon untestable 
assumptions and, depending on the proportion of missing data, this may undermine the 
robustness of the results (see A.5.).  A prospective plan to collect informative reasons for why 
data intended for collection are missing may help to distinguish the occurrence of intercurrent 
events from missing data.  This in turn may improve the analysis and may also lead to a more 
appropriate choice of sensitivity analysis.  For example, “loss to follow-up” may more 
accurately be recorded as “treatment discontinuation due to lack of efficacy”.  Where that has 
been defined as an intercurrent event, this can be reflected through the strategy chosen to 
account for that intercurrent event and not as a missing data problem.  To reduce missing data, 
measures can be implemented to retain subjects in the trial.  However, measures to reduce or 
avoid intercurrent events that would normally occur in clinical practice risk reducing the 
external validity of the trial.  For example, selection of the trial population or use of titration 
schemes or concomitant medications to mitigate the impact of toxicity might not be suitable if 
those same measures would not be implemented in clinical practice. 
Randomisation and blinding remain cornerstones of controlled clinical trials.  Design 
techniques for avoiding bias are addressed in Section 2.3.  Certain estimands may necessitate, 
or may benefit from, use of trial designs such as run-in or enrichment designs, randomised 
withdrawal designs, or titration designs.  It might be of interest to identify the principal stratum 
of subjects who can tolerate a treatment using a run-in period, in advance of randomising those 
subjects between test treatment and control.  Dialogue between regulator and sponsor would 
need to consider whether the proposed run-in period is appropriate to identify the target 
population, and whether the choices made for the subsequent trial design (e.g. washout period, 
randomisation) supports the estimation of the target treatment effect and associated inference.  
These considerations might limit the use of these trial designs, and use of that particular 
strategy. 
A precise description of the treatment effects of interest should inform sample size calculations.  
Particular care should be taken when making reference to historical studies that might, 
implicitly or explicitly, have reported estimated treatment effects or variability based on a 
different estimand.  Where all subjects contribute information to the analysis, and where the 
impact of the strategy to reflect intercurrent events is included in the effect size that is targeted 
and the expected variance, it is not usually necessary to additionally inflate the calculated 
sample size by the expected proportion of subject withdrawals from the trial. 
Section 7.2. addresses issues related to summarising data across clinical trials.  The need to 
have consistent definitions for the variables of interest is highlighted and this can be extended 
to the construction of estimands.  Hence, in situations when synthesising evidence from across 
a clinical trial programme is envisaged at the planning stage, a suitable estimand should be 
constructed, included in the trial protocols, and reflected in the choices made for the design of 


--- Page 17 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
15 
 
the contributing trials.  Similar considerations apply to the design of a meta-analysis, using 
estimated effect sizes from completed trials to determine non-inferiority margins, or the use of 
external control groups for the interpretation of single-arm trials.  A naïve comparison between 
data sources, or integration of data from multiple trials without consideration and specification 
of the estimand that is addressed in each data presentation or statistical analysis, could be 
misleading. 
More generally, a trial is likely to have multiple objectives translated into multiple estimands, 
each associated with statistical testing and estimation.  The multiplicity issues arising should 
be addressed. 
 
A.5. 
IMPACT ON TRIAL ANALYSIS 
A.5.1. 
Main Estimation 
An estimand for the effect of treatment relative to a control will be estimated by comparing the 
outcomes in a group of subjects on the treatment to those in a similar group of subjects on the 
control.  For a given estimand, an aligned method of analysis, or estimator, should be 
implemented that is able to provide an estimate on which reliable interpretation can be based.  
The method of analysis will also support calculation of confidence intervals and tests for 
statistical significance.  An important consideration for whether an interpretable estimate will 
be available is the extent of assumptions that need to be made in the analysis.  Key assumptions 
should be stated explicitly together with the estimand and accompanying main and sensitivity 
estimators.  Assumptions should be justifiable and implausible assumptions should be avoided.  
The robustness of the results to potential departures from the underlying assumptions should 
be assessed through an estimand-aligned sensitivity analysis (see A.5.2.).  Estimation that relies 
on many or strong assumptions requires more extensive sensitivity analysis.  Where the impact 
of deviations from assumptions cannot be comprehensively investigated through sensitivity 
analysis, that particular combination of estimand and method of analysis might not be 
acceptable for decision making.   
All methods of analysis rely on assumptions, and different methods may rely on different 
assumptions even when aligned to the same estimand.  Nevertheless, some kinds of assumption 
are inherent in all methods of analysis aligned to estimands that use each of the different 
strategies outlined; for example, the methodology for predicting the outcomes that would have 
been observed in the hypothetical scenario, or for identifying a suitable target population in a 
principal stratum strategy.  Some examples are given below related to the different strategies 
used to reflect the occurrence of intercurrent events.  The issues highlighted will be key 
components of discussion between sponsor and regulator in advance of an estimand, main 
analysis and sensitivity analysis being agreed. 
Analysis aligned with a treatment policy strategy to address a given intercurrent event may 
entail stronger or weaker assumptions depending on the design and conduct of the trial.  When 
most subjects are followed-up even after the respective intercurrent event (e.g. discontinuation 


--- Page 18 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
16 
 
of treatment), the remaining problem of missing data may be relatively minor.  In contrast, 
when observation is terminated after an intercurrent event, which is obviously undesirable in 
respect of this strategy, the assumption that (unobserved) outcomes for discontinuing subjects 
are similar to the (observed) outcomes for those who remain on treatment will often be 
implausible.  An alternative approach to handle the missing data would need to be justified and 
sensitivity analysis will be expected. 
Analysis aligned to a hypothetical strategy involves outcomes different from those actually 
observed; for example, outcomes if rescue medication had not been given when in fact it was.  
Observations before the rescue medication and observations on subjects who did not require 
rescue medication may be informative, but only under strong assumptions.  
A composite variable strategy can avoid statistical assumptions about data after an intercurrent 
event by considering occurrence of the intercurrent event as a component of the outcome.  The 
potential concern relates less to assumptions for estimation, and more to the interpretation of 
the estimated treatment effect.  For the estimand to be interpretable, if scores are assigned for 
failure because the intercurrent event occurs, these should meaningfully reflect the lack of 
benefit to the patient (e.g. death may be reflected differently than discontinuation of treatment 
due to adverse event). 
Estimands constructed based on a while on treatment strategy can be estimated provided 
outcomes are collected up to the time of the intercurrent event.  Again, the crucial assumptions 
concern interpretation.  Take discontinuation of treatment by way of example.  Outcomes while 
on treatment may be improved but the treatment may also shorten, or lengthen, the treatment 
period by provoking, or delaying, discontinuations, and both these effects should be considered 
in interpretation and assessment of clinical benefit. 
Analysis aligned to a principal stratum strategy usually requires strong assumptions.  For 
example, some principal stratification methods infer this from baseline characteristics of the 
subjects, but the correctness of this inference may be difficult to assess.  This difficulty cannot 
be avoided by simplified methods, however.  For example, simply comparing subjects who do 
not have an intercurrent event on the test treatment to those who do not have an event on 
control, assuming intercurrent events are unrelated to treatment, is very difficult to justify. 
Even after defining estimands that address intercurrent events in an appropriate manner and 
making efforts to collect the data required for estimation (see A.4.), some data may still be 
missing, including e.g. administrative censoring in trials with survival outcomes.  Failure to 
collect relevant data should not be confused with the choice not to collect, or to collect and not 
to use, data made irrelevant by an intercurrent event.  For example, data that were intended to 
be collected after discontinuation of trial medication to inform an estimand based on the 
treatment policy strategy are missing if uncollected; however, the same data points might be 
irrelevant for another strategy, and thus, for the purpose of that second estimand, are not 
missing if uncollected.  Where those efforts to collect data are not successful it becomes 
necessary to make assumptions to handle the missing data in the statistical analysis.  Handling 
of missing data should be based on clinically plausible assumptions and, where possible, guided 


--- Page 19 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
17 
 
by the strategies employed in the description of the estimand.  The approach taken may be 
based on observed covariates and post-baseline data from individual subjects and from other 
similar subjects.  Criteria to identify similar subjects might include whether or not the 
intercurrent event has occurred.  For example, for subjects who discontinue treatment without 
further data being collected, a model may use data from other subjects who discontinued 
treatment but for whom data collection has continued. 
 
A.5.2. 
Sensitivity Analysis 
A.5.2.1. 
Role of Sensitivity Analysis 
Inferences based on a particular estimand should be robust to limitations in the data and 
deviations from the assumptions used in the statistical model for the main estimator.  This 
robustness is evaluated through a sensitivity analysis.  Sensitivity analysis should be planned 
for the main estimators of all estimands that will be important for regulatory decision making 
and labelling in the product information.  This can be a topic for discussion and agreement 
between sponsor and regulator. 
The statistical assumptions that underpin the main estimator should be documented.  One or 
more analyses, focused on the same estimand, should then be pre-specified to investigate these 
assumptions with the objective of verifying whether or not the estimate derived from the main 
estimator is robust to departures from its assumptions.  This might be characterised as the extent 
of departures from assumptions that change the interpretation of the results in terms of their 
statistical or clinical significance (e.g. tipping point analysis). 
Distinct from sensitivity analysis, where investigations are conducted with the intent of 
exploring robustness of departures from assumptions, other analyses that are conducted in order 
to more fully investigate and understand the trial data can be termed “supplementary analysis” 
(see Glossary; A.5.3.).  Where the primary estimand(s) of interest is agreed between sponsor 
and regulator, the main estimator is pre-specified unambiguously, and the sensitivity analysis 
verifies that the estimate derived is reliable for interpretation, supplementary analyses should 
generally be given lower priority in assessment. 
 
A.5.2.2. 
Choice of Sensitivity Analysis 
When planning and conducting a sensitivity analysis, altering multiple aspects of the main 
analysis simultaneously can make it challenging to identify which assumptions, if any, are 
responsible for any potential differences seen.  It is therefore desirable to adopt a structured 
approach, specifying the changes in assumptions that underlie the alternative analyses, rather 
than simply comparing the results of different analyses based on different sets of assumptions.  
The need for analyses varying multiple assumptions simultaneously should then be considered 
on a case by case basis.  A distinction between testable and untestable assumptions may be 
useful when assessing the interpretation and relevance of different analyses. 


--- Page 20 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
18 
 
The need for sensitivity analysis in respect of missing data is established and retains its 
importance in this framework.  Missing data should be defined and considered in respect of a 
particular estimand (see A.4.).  The distinction between data that are missing in respect of a 
specific estimand and data that are not directly relevant to a specific estimand gives rise to 
separate sets of assumptions to be examined in sensitivity analysis.   
 
A.5.3. 
Supplementary Analysis 
Interpretation of trial results should focus on the main estimator for each agreed estimand 
providing that the corresponding estimate is verified to be robust through the sensitivity 
analysis.  Supplementary analyses for an estimand can be conducted in addition to the main 
and sensitivity analysis to provide additional insights into the understanding of the treatment 
effect.  They generally play a lesser role for interpretation of trial results.  The need for, and 
utility of, supplementary analyses should be considered for each trial. 
Section 5.2.3. indicates that it is usually appropriate to plan for analyses based on both the FAS 
and the Per Protocol Set (PPS) so that differences between them can be the subject of explicit 
discussion and interpretation.  Consistent results from analyses based on the FAS and the PPS 
is indicated as increasing confidence in the trial results.  It is also described in Section 5.2.2. 
that results based on a PPS might be subject to severe bias.  In respect of the framework 
presented in this addendum, it may not be possible to construct a relevant estimand to which 
analysis of the PPS is aligned.  As noted above, analysis of the PPS does not achieve the goal 
of estimating the effect in any principal stratum, for example, in those subjects able to tolerate 
and continue to take the test treatment, because it may not compare similar subjects on different 
treatments.   
Protocol violations and deviations might exclude subjects from the PPS, for example by having 
a visit outside a time window, without an intercurrent event necessarily having occurred.  
Likewise, subjects could experience an intercurrent event, such as death, without having 
deviated from the protocol.  Notwithstanding the differences between violations and deviations 
from the protocol and intercurrent events, events likely to affect the interpretation or existence 
of measurements are considered in the description of the estimand.  Estimands might be 
constructed, with aligned method of analysis, that better address the objective usually 
associated with the analysis of the PPS.  If so, analysis of the PPS might not add additional 
insights. 
 
A.6. 
DOCUMENTING ESTIMANDS AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS  
A trial protocol should define and specify explicitly a primary estimand that corresponds to the 
primary trial objective.  The protocol and the analysis plan should pre-specify the main 
estimator that is aligned with the primary estimand and leads to the primary analysis, together 
with a suitable sensitivity analysis to explore the robustness under deviations from its 
assumptions.  Estimands for secondary trial objectives (e.g. related to secondary variables) that 


--- Page 21 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
19 
 
are likely to support regulatory decisions should also be defined and specified explicitly, each 
with a corresponding main estimator and a suitable sensitivity analysis.  Additional exploratory 
trial objectives may be considered for exploratory purposes, leading to additional estimands. 
The choice of the primary estimand will usually be the main determinant for aspects of trial 
design, conduct and analysis.  Following usual practices, these aspects should be well 
documented in the trial protocol.  If secondary estimands are of key interest, these 
considerations may be extended to support these as needed and should be documented as well.  
Beyond these aspects, the conventional considerations for trial design, conduct and analysis 
remain the same. 
While it is to the benefit of the sponsor to have clarity on what is being estimated, it is not a 
regulatory requirement to document an estimand for each exploratory objective. 
Results from the main, sensitivity and supplementary analyses should be reported 
systematically in the clinical trial report, specifying whether each analysis was pre-specified, 
introduced while the trial was still blinded, or performed post hoc.  Summaries of the number 
and timings of each intercurrent event in each treatment group should be reported. 
Changes to the estimand during the trial can be problematic and can reduce the credibility of 
the trial.  Addressing intercurrent events that were not foreseen at the design stage, and are 
identified during the conduct of the trial, should discuss not only the choices made for the 
analysis, but the effect on the estimand, i.e. on the description of the treatment effect that is 
being estimated, and the interpretation of the trial results.  A change to the estimand should 
usually be reflected through amendment to the protocol. 
 
 


--- Page 22 ---
ICH E9(R1) Guideline 
20 
 
GLOSSARY 
Estimand: 
A precise description of the treatment effect reflecting the clinical question posed by the trial 
objective.  It summarises at a population-level what the outcomes would be in the same patients 
under different treatment conditions being compared. 
 
Estimate: 
A numerical value computed by an estimator. 
 
Estimator: 
A method of analysis to compute an estimate of the estimand using clinical trial data. 
 
Intercurrent Events: 
Events occurring after treatment initiation that affect either the interpretation or the existence 
of the measurements associated with the clinical question of interest.  It is necessary to address 
intercurrent events when describing the clinical question of interest in order to precisely define 
the treatment effect that is to be estimated. 
 
Missing Data: 
Data that would be meaningful for the analysis of a given estimand but were not collected.  
They should be distinguished from data that do not exist or data that are not considered 
meaningful because of an intercurrent event. 
 
Principal Stratification: 
Classification of subjects according to the potential occurrence of an intercurrent event on all 
treatments.  With two treatments, there are four principal strata with respect to a given 
intercurrent event: subjects who would not experience the event on either treatment, subjects 
who would experience the event on treatment A but not B, subjects who would experience the 
event on treatment B but not A, and subjects who would experience the event on both 
treatments.  In this document a principal stratum refers to any of the strata (or combination 
of strata) defined by principal stratification. 
 
Sensitivity Analysis: 
A series of analyses conducted with the intent to explore the robustness of inferences from the 
main estimator to deviations from its underlying modelling assumptions and limitations in the 
data. 
 
Supplementary Analysis: 
A general description for analyses that are conducted in addition to the main and sensitivity 
analysis with the intent to provide additional insights into the understanding of the treatment 
effect.   
