
--- Page 1 ---
1 
 
 
 
NICE DSU TECHNICAL SUPPORT DOCUMENT 16:  
ADJUSTING SURVIVAL TIME ESTIMATES IN THE 
PRESENCE OF TREATMENT SWITCHING  
 
 
REPORT BY THE DECISION SUPPORT UNIT 
 
July 2014 
 
 
Nicholas R Latimer1 
Keith R Abrams2 
 
 
 
 
1 School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, UK 
2 Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, UK 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Decision Support Unit, ScHARR, University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 Regent Street 
Sheffield, S1 4DA 
Tel (+44) (0)114 222 0734  
E-mail dsuadmin@sheffield.ac.uk 
Twitter: @NICE_DSU  


--- Page 2 ---
2 
 
ABOUT THE DECISION SUPPORT UNIT 
The Decision Support Unit (DSU) is a collaboration between the Universities of Sheffield, 
York and Leicester. We also have members at the University of Bristol, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and Brunel University. 
The DSU is commissioned by The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) 
to provide a research and training resource to support the Institute's Technology Appraisal 
Programme. Please see our website for further information www.nicedsu.org.uk 
 
ABOUT THE TECHNICAL SUPPORT DOCUMENT SERIES 
The NICE Guide to the Methods of Technology Appraisali is a regularly updated document 
that provides an overview of the key principles and methods of health technology assessment 
and appraisal for use in NICE appraisals. The Methods Guide does not provide detailed 
advice on how to implement and apply the methods it describes. This DSU series of 
Technical Support Documents (TSDs) is intended to complement the Methods Guide by 
providing detailed information on how to implement specific methods. 
The TSDs provide a review of the current state of the art in each topic area, and make clear 
recommendations on the implementation of methods and reporting standards where it is 
appropriate to do so. They aim to provide assistance to all those involved in submitting or 
critiquing evidence as part of NICE Technology Appraisals, whether manufacturers, 
assessment groups or any other stakeholder type.  
We recognise that there are areas of uncertainty, controversy and rapid development. It is our 
intention that such areas are indicated in the TSDs. All TSDs are extensively peer reviewed 
prior to publication (the names of peer reviewers appear in the acknowledgements for each 
document). Nevertheless, the responsibility for each TSD lies with the authors and we 
welcome any constructive feedback on the content or suggestions for further guides. 
Please be aware that whilst the DSU is funded by NICE, these documents do not constitute 
formal NICE guidance or policy. 
 
Dr Allan Wailoo 
Director of DSU and TSD series editor. 
 
                                                           
i National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Guide to the methods of technology appraisal, 2013 (updated 2013), 
London. 


--- Page 3 ---
3 
 
Acknowledgements 
The authors thank Paul Lambert, Michael Crowther, James Morden, Allan Wailoo, Ron 
Akehurst and Mike Campbell for valuable contributions made to work that has contributed to 
this document. 
The DSU thanks Ian White, Andrew Briggs, Warren Cowell, Paul Tappenden and Melinda 
Goodall for reviewing this document.  
The production of this document was funded by the National Institute for Health and Care 
Excellence (NICE) through its Decision Support Unit. The views, and any errors or 
omissions, expressed in this document are of the authors only. NICE may take account of part 
or all of this document if it considers it appropriate, but it is not bound to do so.  
KRA is partly supported by the UK National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) as a 
Senior Investigator (NI-SI-0508-10061). 
 
 
This report should be referenced as follows: 
Latimer NR, Abrams KR. NICE DSU Technical Support Document 16: Adjusting survival 
time estimates in the presence of treatment switching. (2014)  
Available from http://www.nicedsu.org.uk   
 
Competing interests 
NRL has undertaken consultancy for Amgen, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Bayer, GSK, Novartis, 
Pfizer, and Sanofi Aventis. 
 
KRA has received honoraria from Allergan, AstraZeneca, GSK, Janssen, Novartis, Novo 
Nordisk and Roche, and has acted as a paid consultant to Amaris, Creativ-Ceutical, 
OptumInsight and PRMA. 
  
 
  
 
 


--- Page 4 ---
4 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Treatment switching can occur when patients in the control group of a clinical trial are 
allowed to switch onto the experimental treatment at some point during follow-up.  Switching 
is common in clinical trials of cancer treatments and can also occur in trials of treatments for 
other diseases.  Generally switching is permitted when the new intervention has been shown 
to be effective in interim analyses (often based upon an outcome measure such as time to 
disease progression), and it is deemed unethical to deny treatment to control group patients.  
Licensing bodies such as the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA), may accept progression free survival (PFS) as a 
primary endpoint for drug approval – reducing the incentives to maintain trial randomisation 
beyond disease progression.   
 
When switching occurs, an “intention to treat” (ITT) analysis – whereby the data are analysed 
according to the arms to which patients were randomised – of the overall survival (OS) 
advantage associated with the new treatment will be biased: If control group patients switch 
treatments and benefit from the new treatment the OS advantage of the new treatment will be 
underestimated.  For interventions that impact upon survival, health technology assessment 
(HTA) bodies such as the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) require 
that economic evaluations consider a lifetime horizon.  This is problematic in the presence of 
treatment switching, because standard ITT analyses are likely to be inappropriate.   
 
Various statistical methods are available to adjust survival estimates in the presence of 
treatment switching, but each makes important assumptions and is subject to limitations.  
“Simple” adjustment methods such as censoring switchers at the point of switch, or excluding 
them entirely from the analysis, are highly prone to selection bias because switching is likely 
to be associated with prognosis.  More complex adjustment methods, which are theoretically 
unbiased given certain assumptions are satisfied, are also available.  Rank Preserving 
Structural Failure Time Models (RPSFTM) and the Iterative Parameter Estimation (IPE) 
algorithm represent randomisation-based methods for estimating counterfactual survival 
times (i.e. survival times that would have been observed in the absence of switching).  The 
Inverse Probability of Censoring Weights (IPCW) method represents an observational-based 
approach, whereby data for switchers are censored at the point of switch and remaining 
observations are weighted with the aim of removing any censoring-related selection bias.     


--- Page 5 ---
5 
 
 
These methods all make important limiting assumptions – for instance the RPSFTM and the 
IPE algorithm rely critically on the “common treatment effect” assumption – that is, the 
treatment effect received by switchers must be the same (relative to the time the treatment is 
taken for) as the treatment effect received by patients initially randomised to the experimental 
group.  This may not represent a valid assumption when patients who switch only receive the 
experimental treatment when their disease has progressed.  Observational-based adjustment 
methods (such as the IPCW) are reliant on the “no unmeasured confounders” assumption – 
that is, data must be available on baseline and time-dependent variables that predict both 
treatment switching and prognosis. 
 
This Technical Support Document (TSD) introduces the RPSFTM, IPE, IPCW and other 
adjustment methods that may be used in the presence of treatment switching.  The key 
assumptions and limitations associated with each method are described, and the use of these 
in past NICE technology appraisals and their performance in simulation studies is reviewed.  
Based upon this, advice is offered in the form of an analysis framework, to help analysts 
determine adjustment methods that are likely to be appropriate on a case-by-case basis.  
Importantly, no single method will be optimal in all circumstances – the performance of 
alternative methods is dependent upon the characteristics of the trial to which they are 
applied.  For instance, the IPCW method is highly prone to error when a very large 
proportion of control patients (greater than approximately 90%, in a trial with sample size 
500) switch onto the experimental treatment.  RPSFTM and IPE methods are sensitive to the 
“common treatment effect” assumption, but the importance of this sensitivity depends upon 
the size of the treatment effect observed in the trial in question.  Novel two-stage methods 
appear to represent a valid alternative adjustment approach, but are only applicable when 
switching can only occur after a specific disease-related time-point (such as disease 
progression).  Given the limitations associated with the adjustment methods, the ITT analysis 
should always be presented.  Analysts should consider in detail the characteristics of the trial, 
the switching mechanism, the treatment effect, data availability and adjustment method 
outputs when determining and justifying appropriate adjustment methods.  In addition to this, 
at the trial planning stage, researchers should take account of the data requirements of 
switching adjustment methods, if switching is to be permitted during the trial, or is thought 
likely to occur. 
 


--- Page 6 ---
6 
 
CONTENTS 
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................ 8 
2. 
TREATMENT SWITCHING – THE PROBLEM ...................................................... 11 
3. 
TREATMENT SWITCHING ADJUSTMENT METHODS ..................................... 14 
3.1 
SIMPLE METHODS ....................................................................................................... 14 
3.1.1  Intention-to-treat analysis ...................................................................................... 14 
3.1.2  Per protocol analysis – excluding and censoring switchers .................................. 14 
3.1.3  Including costs of the treatment switched to .......................................................... 14 
3.1.4  Modelling based only on PFS ................................................................................. 15 
3.1.5  Applying the same risk of death upon disease progression .................................... 16 
3.1.6  Assumed equal OS for the two treatment groups ................................................... 17 
3.1.7  Using sequencing models ....................................................................................... 17 
3.2  COMPLEX METHODS ....................................................................................................... 18 
3.2.1  Inverse Probability of Censoring Weights.............................................................. 18 
3.2.2  Rank Preserving Structural Failure Time Model ................................................... 19 
3.2.3  Iterative Parameter Estimation algorithm ............................................................. 20 
3.2.4  Alternative “two-stage” methods ........................................................................... 21 
3.2.5  Using external data ................................................................................................ 22 
3.3  APPLICATION TO ECONOMIC EVALUATIONS .................................................................... 23 
3.3.1  Theoretical limitations ............................................................................................ 23 
3.3.2  Practical limitations ............................................................................................... 25 
4. 
SIMULATION STUDIES .............................................................................................. 26 
5. 
REVIEW OF SWITCHING ADJUSTMENT METHODS USED IN ....................... 32 
NICE TAs ............................................................................................................................... 32 
5.1  EXTERNAL DATA ............................................................................................................ 35 
5.2  REVIEW CONCLUSIONS ................................................................................................... 37 
6. 
METHODOLOGICAL AND PROCESS GUIDANCE .............................................. 38 
7. 
DISCUSSION .................................................................................................................. 44 
8.   CONCLUSIONS ............................................................................................................. 47 
9. 
REFERENCES ............................................................................................................... 48 
APPENDIX A: COMPLEX SWITCHING ADJUSTMENT METHODS ....................... 53 
 
TABLES & FIGURES 
Table 1: Methods used to account for switching in NICE technology appraisals (2000 – 2009) ......... 34 
 
Figure 1: The potential impact of treatment switching illustrated ........................................................ 13 
Figure 2: Treatment switching analysis framework .............................................................................. 40 
 


--- Page 7 ---
7 
 
Abbreviations and definitions 
AF 
 
Acceleration Factor 
AG   
 
Assessment Group 
DSU    
Decision Support Unit 
EMA  
European Medicines Agency 
ERG    
Evidence Review Group 
FAD    
Final Appraisal Determination  
FDA  
United States Food and Drug Administration 
GIST    
Gastro-intestinal Stromal Tumours 
HR  
 
Hazard Ratio  
HTA  
Health Technology Assessment 
ICER  
Incremental Cost Effectiveness Ratio 
IPCW  
Inverse Probability of Censoring Weights 
IPE  
 
Iterative Parameter Estimation 
ITT    
Intention To Treat 
IV 
 
Instrumental Variables 
MSM  
Marginal Structural Model 
MTA   
Multiple Technology Appraisal 
NICE    
National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
OS  
 
Overall Survival 
PFS    
Progression Free Survival 
PPS 
 
Post Progression Survival 
QALY  
Quality Adjusted Life Year 
RCC  
Renal Cell Carcinoma 
RCT    
Randomised Controlled Trial 
RPSFTM 
Rank Preserving Structural Failure Time Model 
SNM  
Structural Nested Model 
STA    
Single Technology Appraisal 
TA   
 
Technology Appraisal 
TSD    
Technical Support Document 
WKM  
Weighted Kaplan-Meier 
 
 


--- Page 8 ---
8 
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
Interventions that impact upon survival form a high proportion of the treatments appraised by 
the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE).  A previous Technical Support 
Document (TSD) has provided recommendations for the extrapolation of survival data using 
patient-level data.1  However, separate from the problem of extrapolation, survival data 
collected in clinical trials, particularly in the setting of metastatic cancer, are often 
confounded by treatment switching.  This prevents a standard intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis 
from addressing the decision problem faced within the economic evaluation.2  
 
In an economic evaluation, the decision problem generally requires the comparison of a state 
of the world in which the new therapy is available and is provided to a cohort of indicated 
patients, to a state of the world in which it is not.  In this TSD treatment switching is defined 
as the switch from control treatment to experimental treatment by patients randomised to the 
control group of a Randomised Controlled Trial (RCT).  Some authors term this “treatment 
crossover” rather than “treatment switching”; here we have used the term “switching” 
because “crossover” may evoke crossover trials, which are a different entity.  In the presence 
of treatment switching the control group is contaminated – it no longer represents the state of 
the world in which the new treatment is not available.  To address the economic evaluation 
decision problem, adjustments must be made to the observed data in order to obtain a more 
robust estimate of the relative benefit of the intervention compared to the control. 
 
Treatment switching is common in trials of oncology treatments, and can be an issue in other 
non-cancer areas.  It has had an important impact in several NICE technology appraisals 
(TAs), as shown in Section 5 of this report.  Switching is prevalent for both ethical and 
practical reasons.  Ethically, when there are no other non-palliative treatments available it 
may be deemed inappropriate to deny control group patients the new treatment if interim 
analyses indicate a positive treatment effect.  Practically, it may be difficult to recruit patients 
to a trial that does not allow treatment switching.  In addition, pharmaceutical companies 
have responded to incentives associated with the acceptance (in some cases) of progression-
free survival (PFS) as a primary endpoint for drug regulatory approval by agencies such as 
the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Medicines Agency 
(EMA).3,4  RCTs of cancer treatments are therefore often powered to investigate differences 
in PFS rather than overall survival (OS) and there is less motivation for pharmaceutical 


--- Page 9 ---
9 
 
companies to ensure that randomised groups are maintained beyond disease progression 
(hence treatment switching may be allowed beyond this point).  However, whilst showing an 
OS advantage may not be essential for obtaining marketing authorisation, a lifetime horizon 
is generally advocated in economic evaluations, especially for interventions that impact upon 
survival; this is recommended in the NICE Guide to the Methods of Technology Appraisal 5 
and in methodological guidance in other health care jurisdictions.6-8  For this reason the issue 
of treatment switching is often regarded as one related to economic evaluation and in this 
TSD it is the economic evaluation context that we address.  However, treatment switching is 
important for the interpretation of the clinical evidence more broadly because the aim of 
adjustment analyses is to obtain more accurate estimates of the clinical benefit associated 
with the new treatment. 
 
In this TSD, first we set out the treatment switching problem in the context of economic 
evaluation.  We then summarise the key switching adjustment methods.  Rather than 
providing mathematical formulae, we outline their pivotal assumptions and limitations as 
well as their practical applicability in an economic evaluation context.  More detail on the 
methodological theory are given in Appendix A, and relevant technical papers are referred to.  
Results of simulation studies are then summarised in order to demonstrate the bias that might 
be expected to be associated with the different switching adjustment methods in a range of 
different scenarios.  Next, we summarise how switching adjustment methods have been used 
in an HTA context based upon a review of NICE TAs.  Finally, we offer guidance on the use 
of adjustment methods in the form of an analysis framework and provide discussion around 
this.   Much of the material contained within this TSD is covered in a related paper recently 
published by Medical Decision Making.2 Where additional research has been completed since 
the publication of that paper, it is captured within this TSD.  
 
This TSD is limited to a discussion of methods that may be used to adjust survival time 
estimates in the presence of treatment switching – we do not consider the adjustment of other 
outcomes that might be affected by treatment switching.  For instance, costs and quality of 
life scores collected within an RCT and attributed to randomised groups will be subject to 
confounding where switching is present.  Aside from simply excluding the costs of treatments 
that were switched to, or only considering quality of life scores in non-switchers, we are 
unaware of attempts to adjust for the effects of switching on these outcomes in HTA, 
although structural mean models could potentially be used for this purpose.9-12  The problem 


--- Page 10 ---
10 
 
may not be as serious as for survival estimates as quality of life scores are often based upon 
health states rather than treatment group, and direct and indirect costs are often based upon 
assumption or external data; however further research in these areas would be valuable.   
 
In addition, this TSD focuses upon treatment switching from the control group onto the 
experimental treatment – we do not consider in detail situations in which experimental group 
patients switch onto the control treatment, or where patients randomised to either group 
receive other post-study treatments.  The reason that these treatment changes are not included 
within our definition of treatment switching is that they can both form part of a realistic 
treatment pathway, meaning an appraisal of the relevant economic evaluation decision 
problem is still possible.  If a patient randomised to the experimental group of a trial 
discontinues the novel therapy and subsequently receives a standard treatment (either that 
received in the control group or a separate standard treatment) this is likely to have occurred 
due to treatment failure, toxicity, tolerability, or adverse events.  Such events and subsequent 
treatment switches are likely to occur in reality and therefore they form a relevant part of the 
analysis of outcomes in the state of the world in which the new treatment is available.  Hence, 
in general, we would not wish to adjust for these treatment changes in our economic analysis 
– we would simply capture them within our analysis.  Similarly, if patients randomised to the 
control (or experimental) group received post-study therapies that do not include the 
experimental treatment, this may reflect a realistic treatment pathway and we would not wish 
to adjust for this in our economic analysis.  Even if differential proportions of patients receive 
different post-study therapies this may reflect appropriate treatment pathways given the initial 
treatment.  In each case, a judgement is required as to whether the treatment pathways 
observed represent realistic treatment patterns.  Unless it is judged that this is not the case, it 
would be inappropriate to adjust for these differences in the economic analysis.  The methods 
discussed in Section 3 of this TSD are not limited to the treatment switching definition that 
we use – they (or variations of them) can be used to address other forms of treatment 
changes. 
 
It is important to note that this TSD does not attempt to provide prescriptive advice on 
exactly which methods should be used to adjust for treatment switching given different trial 
characteristics.  Such guidance is not possible, because identifying the method that is likely to 
produce least bias is a function of several different factors and interactions of these (such as 
switching proportion, trial sample size, data collected, switching mechanism, magnitude of 


--- Page 11 ---
11 
 
treatment effect).  It is not possible to cover every possible combination of these factors.  
Instead, we provide an analysis framework that will enhance the likelihood that suitable 
adjustment methods are identified on a case-by-case basis.   
 
This TSD focuses on situations where patient-level data are available, because this is 
essential in order to use the switching adjustment methods detailed in Section 3.  Hence, the 
TSD is particularly relevant to those preparing sponsor submissions to NICE.  However, 
undertaking and reporting switching adjustment analysis as suggested in this TSD will also 
enable Assessment Groups (AGs) to critique sponsor submissions more effectively and in 
circumstances where patient-level data are provided to AGs, we recommend that they follow 
the processes outlined here.  Research is ongoing regarding methods for adjusting for 
treatment switching in the absence of patient-level data.13  
 
 
2. 
TREATMENT SWITCHING – THE PROBLEM 
Treatment switching is an important problem for economists and decision-makers because it 
typically leads to a treatment pathway that is not relevant for the decision problem defined in 
an HTA.2 Treatment switching causes a mismatch between what has been studied in the 
clinical trial and the economic analysts’ decision problem – an ITT analysis (a comparison of 
treatment groups as randomised) becomes insufficient to address the decision problem. 
 
In this TSD we define bias as the difference (error) between the estimated treatment effect 
and the effect that would have been observed in the absence of treatment switching.  The bias 
that may be created by treatment switching and the theoretical problems that it creates for the 
economic analysis are illustrated in Figure 1.  The first two rows (“Control Treatment” and 
“Intervention”) illustrate the “perfect” trial, where no treatment switching occurs.  Survival 
time is on the x-axis, and in this example the new intervention extends PFS and post 
progression survival (PPS).  This results in the “True OS difference” identified in the 
diagram.  In this case, a standard ITT analysis will usually give us the information that we 
need for our economic model (ignoring any need for extrapolation) as this perfectly satisfies 
the economic evaluation decision problem of comparing a state of the world in which the 
experimental treatment is available, to one in which the experimental treatment is not 
available.  However, the third row (“Control  Intervention”) demonstrates what may 


--- Page 12 ---
12 
 
happen to survival in the control group if treatment switching is permitted (in this case, after 
disease progression).  PPS is extended compared to the “Control Treatment” comparator, 
under the assumption that some control group patients switch and benefit from the new 
intervention after disease progression.  The result of this is that the OS difference observed in 
the RCT ITT analysis (labelled “RCT OS difference” in Figure 1) is smaller than the true OS 
difference that would have been observed if no treatment switching had occurred, and the 
ITT analysis would not appropriately address the economic evaluation decision problem.  
The simple ITT analysis will result in bias equal to the difference between the “true OS 
difference” and the “RCT OS difference” when treatment switching occurs.  The extent of 
this bias will be unknown, as the true OS difference will be unobserved.  However it is clear 
that provided switching patients benefit to any extent from the new intervention, some bias 
will exist.  An economic evaluation that relies upon this ITT analysis would produce 
inaccurate cost-effectiveness results (in this case the incremental cost effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) would be over-estimated) and inappropriate resource allocation decisions may be 
made.   
 
 
 


--- Page 13 ---
13 
 
Figure 1: The potential impact of treatment switching illustrated 
 
Notes: PFS = Progression Free Survival; PPS = Post Progression Survival; OS = Overall Survival; RCT = Randomised Controlled Trial 
 
The problems associated with treatment switching have been recognised in the NICE Guide 
to the Methods of Technology Appraisal,5 which states: 
 
“In RCTs, participants randomised to the control group are sometimes allowed to switch 
treatment group and receive the active intervention. In these circumstances, when intention-
to-treat analysis is considered inappropriate, statistical methods that adjust for treatment 
switching can also be presented. Simple adjustment methods such as censoring or excluding 
data from patients who crossover should be avoided because they are very susceptible to 
selection bias. The relative merits and limitations of the methods chosen to explore the 
impact of switching treatments should be explored and justified with respect to the method 
chosen and in relation to the specific characteristics of the data set in question. These 
characteristics include the mechanism of crossover used in the trial, the availability of data 
on baseline and time-dependent characteristics, and expectations around the treatment effect 
if the patients had remained on the treatment to which they were allocated.”  [p.46, NICE 
Guide to the Methods of Technology Appraisal, 2013]  
 
While the NICE Guide clearly recognises the limitations of ITT analyses and simple 
exclusion and censoring methods in the presence of treatment switching, it is not prescriptive 
with regards to the switching adjustment methods that should be used.  This TSD provides 
further support with regard to identifying suitable adjustment methods. 
 


--- Page 14 ---
14 
 
3. 
TREATMENT SWITCHING ADJUSTMENT METHODS 
In this section we introduce various treatment switching adjustment methods.  We begin with 
relatively simple methods, before moving on to more complex methods.  The simpler 
methods are more commonly used in HTA, as demonstrated by our review of NICE 
technology appraisals (TAs) presented in Section 5.  First we discuss the key assumptions of 
the key methods, before considering their theoretical and practical limitations with respect to 
their incorporation within an economic model.  We focus on the key principles of the 
methods rather than their mathematics – though further details on the more complex methods 
are provided in Appendix A. 
 
3.1 SIMPLE METHODS 
3.1.1  Intention-to-treat analysis 
An ITT analysis does not attempt to adjust for treatment switching, but represents the 
standard analysis undertaken alongside RCTs.  Groups are compared as randomised, and thus 
the randomisation-balance of the trial is respected.  The ITT analysis represents a valid 
comparison of randomised groups, but in the presence of treatment switching this is unlikely 
to be what is required for an economic evaluation because the “true” survival benefit 
associated with the novel intervention will be diluted due to the switching of control group 
patients onto the novel therapy.   
 
3.1.2  Per protocol analysis – excluding and censoring switchers 
These approaches involve either excluding data from patients that switch, or censoring these 
at the point of the switch.  Such analyses are prone to selection bias through informative 
censoring or exclusion because the randomisation balance between groups is broken if 
switching is associated with prognostic patient characteristics – for instance, if patients with 
poor prognosis are more likely to switch.14,15  This is highly likely in the case of treatment 
switching in clinical trials – clinicians decide whether it is appropriate for individual patients 
to switch and this decision will be made based upon patient characteristics rather than being 
random.  
 
3.1.3  Including costs of the treatment switched to 
This approach represents an accurate economic evaluation of the RCT because it models 
exactly what happened in the trial; survival estimates are not adjusted for treatment 


--- Page 15 ---
15 
 
switching, but the cost of the treatments switched to are included in the analysis.  This might 
be described as a “full ITT” analysis.  The usefulness of the technique for use in HTA is 
uncertain, given the economic evaluation decision problem.  As discussed in Section 1, the 
aim of an economic evaluation of a new intervention is typically to compare a state of the 
world where the new intervention exists to one in which it does not, and simply analysing the 
trial data as observed and allocating costs to patients who switch does not satisfy this aim – it 
trades internal consistency for external validity.  An economic evaluation that incorporated 
the costs of the treatment switched to may dilute the bias associated with an ITT analysis that 
did not incorporate the switching costs, but the extent to which this would reflect an accurate 
estimate of what the ICER would have been in the absence of switching would be unknown.  
It is likely that switchers are selected based upon prognosis, and they may also have a 
reduced capacity to benefit: these issues may cause the ICER to be importantly different in 
switchers compared to patients randomised to the experimental group.  To address the 
economic evaluation decision problem, it would be preferable to accurately adjust survival 
estimates for switching and to exclude the costs of switching treatments.  
 
3.1.4  Modelling based only on PFS 
Where switching is only permitted after disease progression, data on PFS are not confounded.  
Hence, an option for the economic modeller may be to base the analysis on PFS only, thereby 
excluding data on post-progression survival.  However, this does not mean that there is an 
implicit assumption that the new intervention only affects PFS.  Rather, the method implies 
an assumption that the absolute QALY gain associated with the extension of PFS is exactly 
equivalent to the absolute QALY gain if OS had also been modelled, thus assuming that post-
progression survival is identical in the two treatment groups and that PFS is an exact 
surrogate for OS.  The initial conclusion may be that this method is likely to underestimate 
the cost-effectiveness of the new intervention:  If the new intervention increases the duration 
of PFS, and if there is a link between PFS and OS, or if the new intervention has any 
independent effect on OS, then modelling based only upon PFS will underestimate cost-
effectiveness.  However, this is not necessarily the case.  Modelling based only upon PFS 
essentially assumes that upon disease progression a patient dies – no more costs are incurred 
and no more QALYs are obtained.  This is important because additional QALYs (and costs) 
are accrued after disease progression, and indeed if the absolute effect of the new treatment 
on OS is smaller than that on PFS then modelling based only on PFS may overestimate the 
cost-effectiveness of the new intervention.  When considering this, it is important to note the 


--- Page 16 ---
16 
 
important distinction between absolute and relative effects.  The relative effect of a new 
treatment may be lower for OS than PFS, but this does not necessarily mean that the absolute 
difference in OS will also be lower.  Because OS is a longer time period than PFS an absolute 
difference in OS that is the same (or greater) than the absolute difference in PFS can be 
achieved with a worse (higher) hazard ratio.  Therefore it is clear that economic analyses that 
only include PFS could lead to underestimation or overestimation of the cost-effectiveness of 
the new intervention.  The NICE Guide to the Methods of Technology Appraisal states that a 
lifetime horizon should be modelled for treatments that are likely to impact upon survival,5 
and thus modelling only PFS is likely to be inadequate.    
 
3.1.5  Applying the same risk of death upon disease progression  
This approach is an extension to the method of basing the economic analysis only on PFS is 
to model OS (see Section 3.1.4), but would assume that once a patient has experienced 
disease progression, their risk of death is the same whether they were randomised to the 
control group or the intervention group.  Using this technique will mean that the absolute 
difference in OS for the two treatments will be similar to the absolute difference in PFS.   
 
Essentially, this method assumes that the treatment effect of the new intervention is of limited 
duration – it lasts only until disease progression.  After this point, there is no additional gain 
to having been treated with the new intervention.  On the other hand, the risk of death is not 
greater in the new intervention group, and thus the PFS gain associated with the new 
treatment is assumed to lead to an OS gain.  This assumption is potentially flexible.  For 
example, at a conservative extreme it could be assumed that a new intervention that increases 
PFS has no impact on OS – that is, the risk of death upon progression in the intervention 
group is higher than in the control group to the extent that OS is identical between the two 
groups.  Alternatively, it could be assumed that the treatment effect is maintained into the 
post-progression period, with the most liberal assumption being that the treatment effect is 
maintained for an entire lifetime.  Another option could be to assume that the treatment effect 
is zero after a given timepoint.  These assumptions are largely arbitrary, and if such an 
approach was taken these should be based upon clinical data, or expert clinical knowledge 
including a consideration of the biological nature of the intervention and the disease itself.  
Even incorporating this information, assumptions are likely to remain highly debatable, and 
thus more complex methods that account for switching by adjusting observed survival data 
may be preferable.  


--- Page 17 ---
17 
 
 
3.1.6  Assumed equal OS for the two treatment groups 
As discussed in Section 3.1.5, an extreme conservative assumption that could be made in the 
presence of OS data confounded by treatment switching could be that the new intervention 
does not confer any OS benefit, even if a PFS benefit has been demonstrated.  In some cases 
this may be a useful analysis for decision makers, even if it is not likely to be accurate.  This 
analysis may present a type of “worst-case” analysis for the new treatment, providing a 
“maximum” ICER associated with the intervention (assuming all other assumptions in the 
model – for example utility scores – were acceptable, and assuming that it is unlikely that the 
intervention would lead to a reduction in OS given a PFS gain).  If this “maximum” ICER 
were acceptable then the decision-maker may recommend the intervention with a greater 
degree of confidence.  However, if this analysis resulted in an ICER that was not acceptable, 
it would be less useful to the decision-maker without several other sensitivity analyses 
demonstrating the ICER for alternative OS estimates.   
 
3.1.7  Using sequencing models 
In some circumstances, it may be the case that treatment pathways are well defined, and data 
are available demonstrating the effectiveness of treatments given at different points in a 
pathway.  This lends itself to a treatment sequencing economic evaluation whereby post-
progression treatments are explicitly modelled as part of a treatment pathway.  This 
represents a method for addressing the treatment switching problem because typically 
switching occurs after disease progression, and a sequencing model would only incorporate 
information from the trial of the new intervention up until the point at which the next 
treatment in the pathway would be administered, which would often be upon disease 
progression.  Data on survival beyond this point would generally be taken from another 
source and the period confounded by treatment switching would not be used within the 
economic model.  However, problems with the analysis would still occur if treatment 
switching occurred in the trial of the final-stage treatment, and often data on the effectiveness 
of interventions at different stages of the disease pathway are difficult to obtain.   
 
 
 


--- Page 18 ---
18 
 
3.2  COMPLEX METHODS  
3.2.1  Inverse Probability of Censoring Weights 
The Inverse Probability of Censoring Weights (IPCW) method represents an approach for 
adjusting estimates of a treatment effect in the presence of any type of informative censoring.  
In the context of treatment switching, data are sorted into a panel format, with observations 
for individuals recorded at regular intervals through time until death or censoring.  Patients 
are then artificially censored at the time of switch, and remaining observations are weighted 
based upon covariate values and a model of the probability of being censored.  This allows 
patients who have not been artificially censored to be weighted in order to reflect their 
similarities to patients who have been censored in an attempt to remove the selection bias 
caused by the censoring – patients who do not switch and have similar characteristics to 
patients who did switch receive higher weights.   
 
The key assumption made by the IPCW method is the “no unmeasured confounders” 
assumption – that is, data must be available on all baseline and time-dependent prognostic 
factors for mortality that independently predict informative censoring (switching) and models 
of censoring risk must be correctly specified.16  In practice, this is unlikely to be perfectly 
true, but the method is likely to work adequately if the “no unmeasured confounders” 
assumption is approximately true – that is, there are no important independent predictors 
missing.  If this is the case, the selection bias associated with the dependence between 
censoring and failure can be corrected for by replacing the Kaplan-Meier estimator, log-rank 
test, and Cox partial likelihood estimator of the hazard ratio (HR) with their IPCW versions.16   
 
The “no unmeasured confounders” assumption represents a key limitation of the IPCW 
method.  It cannot be tested using the observed data17,18 and is particularly problematic in the 
context of an RCT.  The IPCW method represents a type of Marginal Structural Model 
(MSM), which were originally developed for use with observational data.19,20  Typically RCT 
datasets are much smaller than observational datasets and when fewer data are available 
(particularly on control group patients who do not switch) the IPCW method may become 
less stable and confidence intervals may become wide.  In addition, some key predictors of 
treatment switching are usually not collected in RCTs (such as patient preference for 
switching) and often data collection on key indicators is stopped at some point (e.g. upon 
treatment discontinuation or disease progression, even in patients who do not switch 


--- Page 19 ---
19 
 
treatments); this can hinder the applicability of the IPCW method.  Finally, the IPCW method 
cannot work if there are levels of any covariates which ensure (that is, the probability equals 
1) treatment switching will occur.18-20     
 
3.2.2  Rank Preserving Structural Failure Time Model 
The Rank Preserving Structural Failure Time Model (RPSFTM) was designed to address the 
issue of treatment non-compliance specifically in the context of RCTs.  It uses a 
counterfactual framework to estimate the causal effect of the treatment in question,21 where 
counterfactual survival times refer to those that would have been observed if no treatment had 
been given.  It is assumed that counterfactual survival times are independent of treatment 
group and g-estimation is used to determine a value for the treatment effect which satisfies 
this constraint.  More details on the g-estimation process are given in Appendix A.  The 
RPSFTM is an instrumental variables (IV) method; such methods are often used when the 
data available are unlikely to capture all factors that predict both treatment and outcome (that 
is, the ignorability assumption does not hold).  In the context of treatment switching, where 
switching is highly likely to be associated with prognostic factors, this is likely to be the case.  
IV approaches use an instrument (in this case the randomised treatment group) that is 
predictive of the treatment to estimate causal treatment effects (see Hernan and Robins 
(2006)22 for further discussion on IV methods). 
 
The RPSFTM does not rely upon the “no unmeasured confounders” assumption and 
identifies the treatment effect using only the randomisation of the trial, observed survival and 
observed treatment history.  The standard one-parameter version of the model assumes that 
the treatment effect (an “acceleration factor”, or “time ratio”) is equal (relative to the time for 
which the treatment is taken) for all patients no matter when the treatment is received (the 
“common treatment effect” assumption), and that the randomisation of the trial means that 
there is only random variation between treatment groups at baseline, apart from treatment 
allocated – untreated survival times must be independent of the randomised treatment 
group.21  This represents the exclusion restriction assumption associated with IV methods.   
 
The primary limitations of the standard one-parameter version of the RPSFTM involve the 
“common treatment effect” assumption and the randomisation (exclusion restriction) 
assumption.  The latter should be reasonable in the context of an RCT, but the potential 
remains for important differences at baseline in small and in larger trials.23  It is therefore 


--- Page 20 ---
20 
 
relevant to note that it is possible to adjust for baseline covariates within an RPSFTM 
analysis.24  The “common treatment effect” assumption is more problematic.  If patients who 
switch on to the experimental treatment part way through the trial receive a different 
treatment effect compared to patients originally randomised to the experimental group, the 
RPSFTM estimate of the treatment effect received by patients in the experimental group will 
be biased.  Given that treatment switching is often only permitted after disease progression – 
at which time the capacity for a patient to benefit may be different compared to pre-
progression – the “common treatment effect” assumption may not be clinically plausible.  As 
for the “no unmeasured confounders” assumption, it is unlikely that the “common treatment 
effect” assumption will ever be exactly true.  However, of more concern is whether the 
assumption is likely to be approximately true – that is, that the treatment effect received by 
switchers can at least be expected to be similar to the effect received by patients initially 
randomised to the experimental group.  There are different ways in which the RPSFTM can 
be applied to a dataset – “treatment group” and “on treatment” analyses are described in 
Section 3.3.1.  The specific approach used to apply the method needs to be justified or 
explored via sensitivity analysis.   
 
3.2.3  Iterative Parameter Estimation algorithm 
Branson and Whitehead (2002) extended the RPSFTM method using parametric methods, 
developing a novel Iterative Parameter Estimation (IPE) procedure.25  The same accelerated 
failure time model is used, but a parametric failure time model is fitted to the original 
unadjusted ITT data to obtain an initial estimate of the treatment effect.  The failure times of 
switching patients are then re-estimated using this, and this iterative procedure continues until 
the new estimate is very close to the previous estimate, at which point the process is said to 
have converged.25   
 
The IPE procedure makes similar assumptions to the RPSFTM method – for example the 
randomisation assumption is made, as is the “common treatment effect” assumption.  An 
additional assumption is that survival times follow a parametric distribution, and thus it is 
important to identify suitable parametric models, which in itself can be problematic.26  
Because the IPE method uses a parametric estimation procedure rather than g-estimation it 
may converge more quickly, but otherwise it would be expected to perform similarly, 
provided a suitable parametric distribution can be identified.  
 


--- Page 21 ---
21 
 
 
3.2.4  Alternative “two-stage” methods 
In addition to the “standard” adjustment methods described so far, “two-stage” methods 
might also be considered.  These methods effectively recognise that the clinical trial is 
randomised up until the point of disease progression, but beyond that point it essentially 
becomes an observational study.  First a treatment effect specific to switching patients is 
estimated and the survival times of these patients are adjusted, subsequently allowing the 
treatment effect specific to experimental group patients to be estimated.  Previous authors 
have used such an approach, making use of structural nested failure time models (SNM) with 
g-estimation to estimate the treatment effect in switchers.17,18  The SNM uses the same causal 
model for counterfactual survival as the RPSFTM – in fact the RPSFTM is a form of SNM.  
However, the distinction between an SNM and an RPSFTM is that the SNM makes the 
assumption of “no unmeasured confounders” rather than basing estimation on the 
randomisation of the trial.  For this reason, the SNM has similar limitations to the IPCW.   
 
A simplified two-stage approach that has not previously been used in an HTA context that 
does not rely upon g-estimation may also be considered, driven by the type of treatment 
switching often observed in oncology RCTs.  When switching is only permitted after disease 
progression this timepoint can be used as a secondary “baseline” under the assumption that 
all patients are at a similar stage of disease at the point of disease progression.  An 
accelerated failure time model (such as a Weibull model) that includes covariates measured at 
the time of progression, and including a covariate indicating treatment switch, could be fitted 
to the post-progression control group data to produce a reasonable estimate of the treatment 
effect received by patients who switched compared to control group patients who did not 
switch.  The resulting acceleration factor can then be used to “shrink” the survival times of 
switching patients in order to derive a counterfactual dataset unaffected by switching.  This is 
a simplification of the method used by Robins and Greenland17 and Yamaguchi and Ohashi18 
because no attempt is made to adjust for time-dependent confounding beyond disease 
progression.  The method therefore requires the strong assumption that there is no time-
dependent confounding between the time of disease progression and the time of treatment 
switch.  It also makes additional parametric assumptions according to which parametric 
accelerated failure time model is used to estimate the treatment effect in switchers. 
 


--- Page 22 ---
22 
 
Whilst the simple two-stage method is theoretically inferior to methods that adjust for time-
dependent confounding (such as the IPCW), it has practical advantages because it does not 
require data to be collected on time-dependent covariates at time-points other than the 
secondary baseline, and hence designing a trial that satisfies the requirements of this 
adjustment method may be relatively straightforward.  Trialists would need to ensure that 
switching was only permitted after a disease-related secondary baseline, and that prognostic 
covariate data were collected at this time-point.  In addition, if switching occurs soon after 
the secondary baseline any time-dependent confounding associated with the lag between 
disease progression and treatment switching would be small.   
 
Unlike the RPSFTM and IPE methods, the simple two-stage method does not require the 
“common treatment effect” assumption because the initial step of the approach involves 
estimating a treatment effect specifically for switchers.  However, such a method may not be 
generaliseable because it is reliant on the ability to identify a secondary baseline.   
 
3.2.5  Using external data  
In some instances it might be possible to estimate OS based upon external data, rather than 
relying upon confounded RCT data.  External trials that incorporated the comparator 
treatment and that were not confounded by treatment switching may exist, or long-term 
registry data for the disease in question may be available.  While such data sources are 
valuable, the use of external data may be associated with important limitations.  Patient 
populations may differ between different trials due to inclusion criteria, and standards of care 
may differ if the trials were undertaken at different times and in different locations.  
Definitions of disease events may also differ, making it difficult to draw appropriate 
comparisons between trials.  These issues are likely to be exacerbated further if the external 
data source is a registry rather than a clinical trial.  If patient-level data are available from the 
external datasets it may be possible to adjust for differences in patient characteristics, 
allowing more accurate estimates of what counterfactual survival would have been in the 
control group of the RCT under investigation (see Section 5 for an example of this in a NICE 
TA).  However, this requires that all important prognostic variables are available from both 
the novel clinical trial, and the external trial(s).  In their absence, different trial populations 
cannot be adjusted appropriately for comparison.  Finally, it may be the case that relevant 
external datasets do not exist, or that the patient-level data associated with these are not 


--- Page 23 ---
23 
 
available, hence using external data to adjust survival time estimates in the presence of 
treatment switching is unlikely to represent a generaliseable approach.     
 
3.3  APPLICATION TO ECONOMIC EVALUATIONS  
3.3.1  Theoretical limitations 
It is important to consider the theoretical limitations associated with the treatment switching 
adjustment methods when considering their suitability for use within an economic evaluation.  
For the IPCW and two-stage methods this involves a consideration of the plausibility of the 
“no unmeasured confounders” assumption.  Although this assumption cannot be tested 
empirically, an assessment of the measured covariates alongside findings from previous 
studies in similar disease areas combined with an elicitation of expert clinical opinion may 
provide valuable information to inform such judgements.  The treatment switching 
mechanism within the trial of interest should also be explored in order to ascertain how and 
why treatment switching decisions were made, as this may provide information upon whether 
data on key switching indicators were collected.  Linked to this data issue is that of sample 
size and event numbers.  The IPCW method bases its adjustment on the survival experiences 
of control group patients who do not switch treatments; if almost all patients switch, and/or 
very few events are observed in patients who do not switch, the method is unlikely to produce 
reliable results.  Additionally, for the simple two-stage method, no effort is made to adjust for 
any time-dependent confounding that occurs between the secondary baseline (for instance, 
disease progression) and the time of switch.  Hence, the implicit assumption is that no time-
dependent confounding occurs between these time-points. 
 
For RPSFTM and IPE methods the clinical and biological plausibility of the “common 
treatment effect” assumption is critical.  In circumstances where treatment switching occurs 
after disease progression it may not be credible to assume that switchers – who now have 
more advanced disease – receive the same benefit (per unit of time) from treatment as those 
in the experimental group who received the treatment from randomisation.  In an attempt to 
relax the “common treatment effect” assumption, analysts have attempted to apply a multi-
parameter version of the RPSFTM.  However these have not been successful, with 
meaningful point estimates for causal effects difficult to determine.17,27,28  While some 
assessment of the “common treatment effect” assumption may be made using trial data (for 
example, by estimating the treatment effect received by switchers compared to non-
switchers) such analyses are likely to be prone to time-dependent confounding and are 


--- Page 24 ---
24 
 
therefore unreliable.  If patients with varying levels of disease progression were randomised 
into the trial of interest comparing the treatment effect in groups based upon initial disease 
stage may be useful, although in end-stage metastatic cancer trials this may not be possible.  
Hence understanding the mechanism of action of the intervention and eliciting clinical expert 
opinion on its likely effectiveness at different points of the disease progression pathway is 
important.   
 
Use of the RPSFTM and IPE methods is also problematic if the comparator treatment used in 
the RCT is active (i.e., it prolongs survival).  The RPSFTM and IPE counterfactual survival 
model requires that patients are either “on” or “off” at any one time.  If patients in the control 
group receive an active treatment followed by supportive care upon treatment failure the 
“off” treatment category represents more than one type of treatment and the counterfactual 
survival model is not appropriate unless additional causal parameters are added to the model 
– but, as stated above, attempts to apply multi-parameter RPSFTMs have not been successful.  
Standard RPSFTM or IPE methods could still be applied, but several important assumptions 
about treatment strategies and their effectiveness in the experimental and control groups 
would be required.  Linked to this, the standard “on treatment” RPSFTM and IPE 
counterfactual survival model assumes that the treatment effect is only received while a 
patient is “on” treatment – it disappears as soon as treatment is discontinued.  The clinical 
plausibility of this assumption should be considered.  If a continuing treatment effect is 
expected the RPSFTM or IPE methods could be applied assuming a lagged treatment effect, 
or on a “treatment group” basis – where patients in the experimental group are always 
considered to be “on” treatment and patients that switch remain “on” treatment from the time 
of switch until death.  This analysis ignores treatment discontinuation times and estimates the 
effect associated with being randomised to the experimental group, rather than the effect 
received while taking the experimental treatment.  In this sense, this approach is more similar 
to a standard ITT analysis of randomised groups.  This approach requires there to be a 
common treatment effect associated with the sequence of treatments received by patients 
randomised to the experimental group and the sequence of treatments received by switchers 
after the point of switch.  Any benefits associated with post-study treatments will be 
attributed to the experimental treatment, though similarly any benefits from post-study 
treatments received by control group non-switchers would be attributed to the control group.  
If the post-study treatments received in all groups represent realistic treatment pathways this 
approach may appropriately address the economic evaluation decision problem – particularly 


--- Page 25 ---
25 
 
if the costs of the post-study treatments are also incorporated within the economic model.  
Hence such an approach might be considered if the comparator is active, or if a continuing 
treatment effect is expected.  
 
It is worthy of note that the randomisation-based methods (RPSFTM and IPE) typically lose 
power in the presence of treatment switching, like the ITT analysis.  By design, they maintain 
the significance level associated with the ITT analysis, and therefore their confidence 
intervals are often relatively wide.  Observational-based methods such as the IPCW and two-
stage methods are not restricted in this way, but their confidence intervals may also be wide if 
data are relatively sparse.   
 
3.3.2  Practical limitations 
The practical limitations associated with combining treatment switching adjustment methods 
with economic evaluations must also be considered.  Latimer (2011 and 2013) provides 
recommendations upon how extrapolation of survival data should be undertaken for use in 
economic models.1,26  Two main approaches are described – extrapolation using parametric 
models fitted independently to treatment groups; and extrapolation undertaken based upon a 
proportional treatment effect assumption whereby one parametric model is fitted to both 
treatment groups combined, with treatment group included as a covariate.  Issues with both of 
these approaches arise when treatment switching adjustment methods are used.  The 
RPSFTM, IPE and two-stage methods provide a counterfactual dataset that is adjusted for 
treatment switching, and thus either extrapolation approach can be undertaken.  However, 
recensoring is required in order for the RPSFTM and IPE methods to avoid bias and this is 
also true for two-stage methods.27  Recensoring is required because a positive or negative 
treatment effect may increase or decrease the probability that the survival time of an 
individual is censored, and, where treatment switching occurs, treatment received is likely to 
be associated with prognosis.  This means that counterfactual censoring times may be related 
to prognosis and may therefore be informative (see Appendix A for more details).27  
Recensoring involves data being recensored at an earlier time-point to avoid informative 
censoring and is therefore associated with a loss of longer-term survival information.  Some 
observed events will become censored if the recensoring time is shorter than the 
counterfactual event time.  The time-point at which recensoring occurs is related to the 
magnitude of the estimated treatment effect; the larger the treatment effect the earlier the 
recensoring time-point.  Loss of long-term information is likely to be detrimental to the 


--- Page 26 ---
26 
 
extrapolation of survival data, which is of particular importance in the context of economic 
evaluation due to the requirement to estimate the mean survival advantages associated with 
novel interventions.5-8,26,29  In addition, recensoring may lead to biased estimates of the 
“average” treatment effect in circumstances where proportional treatment effect assumptions 
do not hold, because longer term data on the effect of treatment may be lost.  
  
The IPCW method provides an estimate of the treatment effect in the form of an adjusted HR 
as well as a weighted Kaplan-Meier (WKM) curve which is associated with a counterfactual 
dataset.  However it is not simple to fit parametric models to the IPCW counterfactual dataset 
due to the weightings associated with each observation.  Novel methods for the extraction of 
survival times from Kaplan-Meier curves could be used to generate a replacement 
counterfactual dataset using the WKM,30 after which a variety of extrapolation methods could 
be applied.  Alternatively a variation on the proportional hazards-based extrapolation could 
be undertaken using the IPCW HR by fitting a parametric model to the observed 
experimental group survival data (which is unaffected by treatment switching) and 
multiplying the hazard function by the inverse of the IPCW HR to obtain the control group 
hazard function, from which the control group survivor function could be derived (we call 
this a “survivor function” approach).  This may produce a degree of error because a HR is 
applied to an independently fitted parametric model, but this error may be minimal. 
  
 
4. 
SIMULATION STUDIES 
Simulation studies involve the simulation of data such that the “truth” is known.  They allow 
alternative methods to be compared based upon how closely they estimate the “truth”.  
Several simulation studies have been undertaken in order to evaluate the performance of 
treatment switching adjustment methods across a wide range of scenarios.31-33  Simulation 
studies are required because the “truth” must be known in order for the performance of 
alternative methods to be compared.  Methods cannot be definitively compared through 
application to real world datasets, because in these datasets we do not know what would have 
happened in the absence of treatment switching.     
 


--- Page 27 ---
27 
 
Morden et al. conducted a simulation study to compare simple treatment switching 
adjustment approaches (such as censoring and exclusion analyses) to a limited subset of more 
complex methods.  The more complex methods considered were: 
 Adjusted Cox model34  
 Causal proportional hazards estimator35  
 Rank Preserving Structural Failure Time Model (RPSFTM)21  
 Iterative Parameter Estimation (IPE)25  
 Parametric randomisation-based method36  
 
The adjusted Cox model, causal proportional hazards estimator, and parametric 
randomisation-based methods are not mentioned in Section 3 of this TSD for several reasons.  
Firstly, these methods appear sub-optimal – Morden et al. show that the adjusted Cox model 
and causal proportional hazards estimator were outperformed across their simulations by the 
RPSFTM and IPE methods.  In addition, the adjusted Cox model has been shown to be 
highly prone to bias because it conditions on future events.37  The causal proportional hazards 
estimator method is designed for a situation of “all-or-nothing” compliance – that is, patients 
who switch must switch immediately upon randomisation or not at all, which is not the case 
with the types of treatment switching considered in this TSD.  Finally, the authors found that 
the parametric randomisation-based method performed very poorly and often failed to 
converge – hence it seems unlikely that this method should be recommended for use in 
HTA.32   
 
Morden et al. simulated independent datasets using a Weibull model in which the true 
treatment effect on survival was known.  A baseline prognostic covariate (“good” or “poor” 
prognosis) which influenced the probability of switching was incorporated, but no time-
dependent covariates or effects were included.  It was assumed that the treatment effect was 
constant over time, and was equal in switchers and patients initially randomised to the 
experimental group – therefore, the “common treatment effect” assumption was assumed to 
hold.  The bias, mean squared error (MSE) and coverage of each method was analysed across 
16 scenarios.  Weibull parameters were chosen to reflect a disease population that had a 
decreasing mortality rate over time, of whom 90% would have died after 3 years of follow-up 
(which was assumed to be the administrative censoring time).  The authors tested scenarios 
which varied the prognosis of switching patients, the difference in survival between 


--- Page 28 ---
28 
 
prognosis groups, the probability of switching (dependent on prognosis group) and the 
treatment effect (HRs of 0.9 and 0.7 were tested). 
 
The authors found that in each scenario tested bias was relatively small for the RPSFTM, 
although the treatment effect was slightly over-estimated, suggesting that the method was 
over-adjusting for treatment switching.  Across the scenarios tested the IPE algorithm 
performed best, producing the least bias.  The simple approach of censoring patients at their 
switching time was found to be particularly inappropriate, giving biased estimates of the true 
treatment effect in situations where a patient's switching pattern is strongly related to their 
underlying prognosis.32  Excluding patients who switched produced lower levels of bias, 
particularly when a low proportion of patients switched, but the bias increased as the 
proportion of patients that switched increased.    
 
While the simulation study undertaken by Morden et al. is useful, it is subject to two main 
limitations.  Firstly a “common treatment effect” was assumed in all scenarios – which 
satisfied the key assumption associated with randomisation-based RPSFTM and IPE 
methods.  This assumption may be unrealistic, since patients who switch receive the 
experimental treatment at a more advanced stage of disease progression and may have a 
lower capacity to benefit.  Considering this, it is important to consider how well alternative 
methods perform when the treatment effect is allowed to vary by group and over time.  
Secondly, the authors did not include any of the more complex observational-based 
approaches, such as IPCW or two-stage methods.  It is important to consider the relative 
performance of these methods compared to the randomisation-based methods and the simple 
methods.   
 
To address these issues Latimer et al. conducted a simulation study which incorporated a 
time-dependent covariate in the data generating mechanism, applied different treatment 
effects to switchers, and included the complex observational-based switching adjustment 
methods.31  A joint longitudinal and survival model was used to simultaneously generate a 
time-dependent prognostic covariate and survival times.  Parameter values were selected such 
that simulated survival times were reflective of the type of data often observed in metastatic 
cancer trials.  Scenarios tested different levels of switching proportion, treatment effect, and 
censoring, and different switching mechanisms.  In each simulation the true survival 
differences between treatment options were known, thus allowing the performance of each 


--- Page 29 ---
29 
 
switching adjustment method to be assessed with respect to bias, mean squared error and 
coverage.  With respect to the RPSFTM and IPE methods in scenarios where the “common 
treatment effect” assumption held, the results confirmed those found by Morden et al. – that 
is, these methods performed very well.  Also, the simple censoring and exclusion methods 
produced much higher levels of bias.  
 
In addition, the authors demonstrated that the IPCW method represented a substantial 
improvement compared to simple methods, but produced higher bias than RPSFTM and IPE 
methods when the “common treatment effect” assumption held.31  This was likely to be due 
to the error associated with applying an observational-based method to a relatively small 
RCT dataset (with sample size of 500 patients), and was in line with the findings of other 
authors.38  Bias associated with the IPCW method became extremely high in scenarios in 
which the proportion of control group patients that switched treatments increased to 
approximately 90%, leaving approximately 20 patients in the control group who did not 
switch.31  The authors also found that excluding a covariate that influenced the probability of 
treatment switching (thus violating the “no unmeasured confounders” assumption) only had a 
minimal impact on the bias produced by the method; however, this was likely to be due to the 
high level of correlation between the simulated prognostic covariates.  The IPCW method 
resulted in substantially lower bias than the simple censoring method, which demonstrated 
the importance of the “no unmeasured confounders” assumption, as the IPCW reduces to 
simple censoring when all confounders are unmeasured. 
 
In scenarios in which the treatment effect received by switchers was approximately 15% 
lower than the average effect received by patients initially randomised to the experimental 
group the authors found that the RPSFTM, IPE and IPCW methods produced similar levels 
of bias in their estimates of the treatment effect.31  All produced important levels of bias, 
equivalent to approximately 5-10% of the treatment effect.  In scenarios where the treatment 
effect received by switchers was approximately 25% lower than the average effect received 
by patients initially randomised to the experimental group the IPCW method produced lower 
bias than the RPSFTM and IPE methods (which often produced bias of over 10%).  In these 
scenarios the ITT analysis often produced least bias (0-5%) if the treatment effect was 
relatively low (equivalent to a HR of approximately 0.75 in experimental group patients).31  
This is logical, because in these scenarios patients who switch receive very little benefit from 
the experimental treatment.    


--- Page 30 ---
30 
 
 
Latimer et al. also tested two “two-stage” methods – a structural nested model (SNM) with g-
estimation and a simple two-stage Weibull approach.  The SNM performed poorly, 
particularly when switching proportions were very high.31  The simple Weibull model 
performed much better, producing relatively low bias across all scenarios.  It generally 
produced lower bias and was much less sensitive to the switching proportion than the IPCW 
method – perhaps reflecting its lower data and modelling requirements.  While the RPSFTM 
and IPE methods produced less bias than the two-stage Weibull method when the “common 
treatment effect” assumption held, the opposite was true when this assumption was violated.  
The results associated with the two-stage Weibull method should be interpreted with some 
caution because it was well suited to the switching mechanism incorporated within the 
simulation study – in particular, switching could only occur soon after disease progression 
(and thus the scope for time-dependent confounding between the point of progression and the 
time of switch was limited) and prognostic covariate data were available at the time of 
disease progression.  However, it is noteworthy that the switching mechanism simulated was 
similar to that observed in metastatic cancer trials, hence the good results associated with the 
two-stage Weibull method should not be ignored.  Owing to the poor performance of the 
more complex adjustment methods across several scenarios, consideration of the simple two-
stage method is justified in situations in which treatment switching can only occur after an 
identifiable secondary baseline, where switching occurs soon after that secondary baseline, 
where data on important prognostic factors are available at that secondary baseline.  This is 
particularly the case in scenarios where RPSFTM, IPE and IPCW methods seem 
inappropriate.   
 
Latimer et al. conducted a second simulation study, to test certain key scenario parameters 
that were not covered by their initial study.33  The initial study only considered high 
switching proportions (approximately 65% - 95% of control group patients switched), 
whereas the follow-up study tested proportions ranging from approximately 10% to 95%. The 
follow-up study considered sample sizes varying from 300 to 500, incorporating 2:1 
randomisation in favour of the experimental group, whereas the initial study considered only 
a sample size of 500 with 1:1 randomisation. The initial study incorporated fairly low 
censoring rates,– ranging between 1% and 21% whereas the follow-up study assessed higher 
censoring proportions – from 13% to 56%.  Finally, the follow-up study tested two different 


--- Page 31 ---
31 
 
data generating models, and simulated the data using more complex hazard functions, using 
2-component mixture Weibull and Gompertz models. 
 
The authors found that generally all the switching adjustment methods produced lower levels 
of bias when the switching proportion was lower, as expected.33  At very low levels of 
switching (less than 10%) there was a marginal increase in the bias associated with the IPCW 
method, reflecting the increased difficulty associated with modelling the switching process 
when very few patients switch.  There was an increase in bias associated with all adjustment 
methods when the sample size was smaller, but this was marginal.  The results also indicated 
an increase in bias associated with the adjustment methods when the censoring proportion 
increased, and thus higher censoring proportions combined with smaller sample sizes and 
higher switching proportions are likely to be problematic.   
 
Importantly, the authors found generally lower levels of bias for all methods, even in 
scenarios that had similar switching proportions and treatment effect sizes (in terms of HRs) 
to scenarios included in their previous study.  In particular, the IPCW generally produced 
lower levels of bias (usually less than 4%), and the impact of violating the “common 
treatment effect” assumption had a smaller impact on the RPSFTM and IPE methods.33  The 
authors concluded that this was due mainly to the size of the acceleration factor associated 
with the simulated datasets.  The mixture Weibull and Gompertz models used to generate the 
data produced survivor functions that had different shapes to those generated in the authors’ 
initial study – the follow-up study used more flexible survival distributions which were 
deemed to better reflect reality.  Different shaped survivor functions meant that simulated 
datasets produced different average acceleration factors associated with the experimental 
treatment, even when the simulated average HR was similar to a corresponding scenario 
included in the first study.  A lower acceleration factor (AF) provides less scope for the 
RPSFTM and IPE methods to produce bias when the common treatment effect assumption 
does not hold, because it is the absolute difference between the treatment effect (in terms of 
an AF) received by experimental group patients and the treatment effect received by 
switchers that causes the bias.  The IPCW method also appeared to perform better when the 
AF was lower.  Hence, it is important to assess the size of the treatment effect both in terms 
of a HR and in terms of an AF when investigating the likely bias associated with alternative 
adjustment methods.  The authors found that when the acceleration factor was relatively low 
(less than approximately 1.8) the RPSFTM and IPE methods produced relatively low levels 


--- Page 32 ---
32 
 
of bias even when the treatment effect decrement in switchers was 20%.  In addition, the 
IPCW method gave bias lower than the 5-10% estimated based upon the authors’ first study 
when the acceleration factor was relatively low (less than approximately 1.8), irrespective of 
the hazard ratio.  
 
Finally, Latimer et al. further investigated the two-stage adjustment method in their follow-up 
study – assessing a two-stage Weibull model and a two-stage Generalised Gamma model.  
These methods performed similarly well and often produced least bias compared to all other 
adjustment methods, even when the “common treatment effect” assumption held.  Where this 
was less likely was where the “common treatment effect” assumption held and there was a 
lower switching proportion – in these scenarios it was more common for the randomisation-
based methods to produce least bias.33  Again, some caution must be taken with the results for 
the two-stage methods, because they were well suited to the simulated switching mechanism 
– switching could only occur soon after disease progression and so the scope for time-
dependent confounding between the point of disease progression and the time of treatment 
switch was limited.   
 
The results of any simulation study should be interpreted with a degree of caution.  It is not 
possible to consider all possible scenarios that might arise in reality and therefore results may 
not be fully generalisable.  In addition, there remains a risk that the results of simulation 
studies may be linked in some way to the chosen data generating process – although in their 
follow-up study Latimer et al. found that the performance of the adjustment methods was not 
affected by the data generating model.33   
 
 
5. 
REVIEW OF SWITCHING ADJUSTMENT METHODS USED IN  
NICE TAs 
In this section we summarise the use of methods to adjust for treatment switching in NICE 
TAs.  We reviewed all NICE TAs that had been completed by December 2009, and identified 
those that were in the area of advanced or metastatic cancer.  Forty-five TAs were identified 
and included in the review – these are listed in Table 1.  Of these, treatment switching 
occurred in pivotal clinical trials in 25 TAs (55.6%).  The proportion of patients that switched 
differed substantially across these 25 appraisals – on two occasions less than 10% of patients 


--- Page 33 ---
33 
 
switched.39,40.  However usually the switching proportion was much higher (for example, the 
proportion of control group patients that switched was higher than 40% in several TAs,41-45) 
and would therefore be expected to have a substantial impact on overall survival time and 
subsequent cost-effectiveness estimates.  Although the exact impact of switching on ICERs 
and treatment recommendations is often hard to assess from the appraisal documents, in a 
number of examples it was possible to determine what the ICER would have been with and 
without adjustments for switching.  For example, in the appraisal of sunitinib for 
gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST) the ITT-based ICER of approximately £77,000 per 
quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained was reduced to approximately £27,000 per QALY 
gained when the RPSFTM was used to adjust for the switching.41  In the appraisal of imatinib 
for GIST the ITT-based ICER of approximately £30,000 per QALY gained was reduced to 
approximately £14,000 per QALY gained by excluding patients who switched from the 
analysis.43  Therefore attempting to account for treatment switching can have an important 
impact on the ICER, and may have influenced the resulting recommendations made 
concerning the use of these treatments in the NHS.  
 
An array of methods have been used to adjust for treatment switching in NICE TAs, 
demonstrating a lack of consistency between HTAs, and also a lack of clarity over which 
methods are appropriate.  That the methods used to address treatment switching have varied 
across HTAs does not in itself demonstrate that methods are being used poorly, since it is 
likely that different methods will be appropriate in different circumstances.  However, the 
regular use of simple censoring and exclusion techniques does show that the switching 
problem is being addressed sub-optimally.  A break-down of the methods employed in the 
reviewed TAs is presented in Table 1.  The methods are categorised into “simple” and “more 
complex” approaches, defined by the complexity of the statistical approach taken to adjust 
specifically for treatment switching – reflecting the categorisation used in Section 3 of this 
TSD.   
 
 
 


--- Page 34 ---
34 
 
Table 1: Methods used to account for switching in NICE technology appraisals (2000 – 2009) 
Method 
TAs which use method 
“Simple” methods 
Intention to treat analysis (no attempt to adjust for 
switching) 
7 (TAs 3, 30, 55, 91, 124, 162, 172)  
Censored patients 
6 (TAs 28, 86, 129, 169, 178, 179)  
Excluded patients 
5 (TAs 34, 70, 86, 169, 178) 
Included costs of switching treatments 
4 (TAs 101, 116, 118, 121) 
Modelled based on PFS, not OS 
2 (TAs 6, 33) 
Used sequencing models 
2 (TAs 93, 176) 
Applied the same risk of death upon disease progression 
1 (TA 118) 
Assumed equal OS for the two treatment groups 
1 (TA 119)  
More complex methods 
Rank preserving structural failure time model 
(RPSFTM)  
1 (TA 179) 
Adjusted survival estimates using a case-mix approach 
1 (TA 34) 
Used external data 
1 (TA 171) 
Note: The numbers in this Table do not sum to 25 because in 6 TAs more than one method was used.   
 
In the TAs in which methods were used to adjust for treatment switching, censoring and 
exclusion approaches were most common (used in 11 of the 25 TAs (44%)); these approaches 
are clearly associated with selection bias.14,15  In 7 (28%) TAs treatment switching was not 
addressed at all.  The simple approach of including the costs of switching treatments 
generally does not meet the requirements of the economic evaluation decision problem, while 
modelling based upon PFS rather than OS, applying the same risk of death upon disease 
progression in each treatment group, or assuming equal OS for the two treatment groups 
makes no use of the data collected on the treatment effect on post progression survival.  
Sequencing models, whereby post-progression treatments are explicitly modelled as part of a 
treatment pathway, were occasionally used.  These may avoid the issues created by treatment 
switching after disease progression if unconfounded data for each treatment in the sequence 
are available – however this is often not the case and in the two TAs that took this approach 
the final treatment sequence modelled remained potentially confounded by treatment 
switching.46,47   
 


--- Page 35 ---
35 
 
Only one TA (sunitinib for GIST, TA179) used a recognised complex switching adjustment 
method (Robins and Tsiatis’s RPSFTM21).41  In one TA (trastuzumab for breast cancer, 
TA34) a case-mix approach which appeared similar to an IPCW method was used to adjust 
for treatment switching,48 however very few details on this were presented in the appraisal 
documents.  
 
Recently there has been a tendency towards the use of more complex treatment switching 
adjustment methods such as RPSFTM and IPCW.  For example, in two NICE appraisals 
completed since we completed our review (pazopanib for the first-line treatment of metastatic 
RCC (TA215) and everolimus for the second-line treatment of advanced RCC (TA219)) both 
RPSFTM and IPCW methods were used.49,50  However, there remains evidence of 
uncertainty around which methods are appropriate for adjusting for treatment switching, as 
well as an important lack of understanding of what these methods entail.  For example, in the 
NICE appraisals of pazopanib for the first-line treatment of metastatic RCC and of 
everolimus for the second-line treatment of advanced RCC the weakness of the IPCW 
method due to its “no unmeasured confounders” assumption was highlighted, whereas the 
“common treatment effect” assumption made by the RPSFTM method was not discussed in 
any detail in the appraisal documents.49,50  Hence, while the RPSFTM method appeared to be 
preferred in these appraisals, there was no evidence that the advantages and disadvantages 
associated with each method had been fully taken into account and, from the appraisal 
documents, it is not clear that the most appropriate switching adjustment method was 
identified.   
 
5.1  EXTERNAL DATA 
The focus in this technical support document is upon statistical methods that may be used to 
adjust observed survival data in the presence of treatment switching.  However, in one TA 
(lenalidomide for multiple myeloma, TA171), a different approach was taken: external data 
were used in an attempt to adjust for treatment switching.45  Patient-level data from two 
external trial datasets were used in order to estimate what post-progression survival would 
have been in the novel clinical trial had treatment switching not occurred.  In the key novel 
trial approximately 50% of control group patients switched onto lenalidomide, with 75% of 
that crossover occurring after disease progression.51  To address this, the manufacturer used 
patient-level data from previous trials that included similar (but not identical) control group 


--- Page 36 ---
36 
 
arms that were not confounded by switching.  The manufacturer provided analyses to 
demonstrate that the OS that could be expected for the control group treatment 
(dexamethasone) used in their novel lenalidomide trial was similar to that observed in the 
external trials (which used dexamethasone as well as some other standard treatments as 
control).45  In addition, the manufacturer produced an analysis to demonstrate that there was 
no evidence of an OS improvement over time.45  This was important because the external trial 
datasets were dated, with patients enrolled between 1980 and 1997.  Based upon these 
analyses, the manufacturer rationalised the use of the external trial datasets for inferring what 
control group survival in the novel lenalidomide trial would have been, had treatment 
switching not occurred.  
 
The manufacturer fitted parametric survival models to the external trial data in order to derive 
an equation for OS that included a range of patient characteristic variables.45  The values of 
these variables were then set to reflect the patient characteristics observed in the lenalidomide 
trial, and hence survival times that would have been observed in the external trial had the 
patient characteristics in the control arm matched those in the novel lenalidomide trial were 
estimated.  The manufacturer did not use this estimate of OS directly in the economic model, 
because PFS and post-progression survival (PPS) were modelled as distinct states, with PFS 
estimated based only on the novel lenalidomide trial (this in itself is questionable, since 25% 
of switching occurred before disease progression).  In the economic model the manufacturer 
used a “calibration factor” applied to PPS such that the median OS estimated from the 
external trial dataset adjusted for the lenalidomide trial patient characteristics equalled the 
median OS estimated by the model, as a function of PFS plus PPS.    
 
The Assessment Group noted some problems with the manufacturer’s analysis.45  Firstly, 
they noted that mean OS rather than median OS should have been used to calibrate the 
estimated OS in the control arm of the lenalidomide trial with the external data.  A second 
problem highlighted by the Assessment Group was that there were likely to be important 
patient characteristics not reported in both the novel lenalidomide trials and the external trials 
which could not be included in the OS equations.  Hence it may not have been possible to 
fully adjust the external trial survival estimates to reflect the lenalidomide trial patient 
population.  The analysis is essentially reliant on a “no unmeasured confounders” 
assumption, and the lack of analysis to identify any important variables missing from either 
the lenalidomide or external trial datasets represented an important oversight on the part of 


--- Page 37 ---
37 
 
the manufacturer.  Finally, the Assessment Group noted that alternative data sources 
suggested improvements in survival in the relevant patient group between 1995 and 2006, 
thus suggesting the dated external trials may indeed represent an underestimate of present-
day control group OS.45  
 
An additional issue which was not mentioned by the Assessment Group but was discussed by 
the Appraisal Committee surrounded the clinical validity of the manufacturer’s analysis.51  
There were two lenalidomide trials relevant to the appraisal, and the application of the 
manufacturer’s analyses to these trials led to control group OS estimates that were 
approximately half those observed in the trials themselves.  These details were marked as 
“commercial-in-confidence” in the TA documents, but were reported in a subsequent 
published paper.52  Therefore, based upon the manufacturer’s analysis, the impact of 
approximately 50% of control group patients switching onto lenalidomide was to cause the 
mean OS for the control group as a whole to approximately double.  For this to be the case, 
the experimental treatment would have to more than double life expectancy for switchers.  In 
the key lenalidomide clinical trial the gain in PFS for lenalidomide was large: 13.4 months 
compared to 4.6 months in the control arm (2.9 times longer for lenalidomide).  Therefore a 
similar relative effect on OS could potentially lead to the OS estimates derived by the 
manufacturer.  However, this would assume that the relative effect of lenalidomide on OS is 
the same (if not higher) than for PFS, and that receiving lenalidomide after disease 
progression leads to the same (if not higher) impact on OS as is the case when it is given 
before disease progression.  The Appraisal Committee noted that the manufacturer’s 
approach led to an improvement in OS predicted by the economic model which was out of 
proportion given the improvement seen in PFS.51  Despite these issues, the deliberations of 
the Appraisal Committee regarding TA171 demonstrated openness to the use of external data 
in the presence of treatment switching.  Such an approach is not generalizable though, 
because often suitable external datasets will not be available, as mentioned in Section 3.2.5.  
 
5.2  REVIEW CONCLUSIONS 
It is clear that alternative complex adjustment methods make very different assumptions and 
work in very different ways, hence they are likely to produce different results.  This has been 
demonstrated in HTA; in the NICE appraisal of pazopanib for the first-line treatment of 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) the IPCW method produced an ICER of approximately 


--- Page 38 ---
38 
 
£49,000 per QALY gained, whereas the RPSFTM method produced an ICER of 
approximately £33,000 per QALY gained.49  While there has been a trend towards using 
more complex methods in HTA these remain poorly discussed and inadequately justified.  
Two-stage methods appear to be potentially useful methods that have not previously been 
used in HTA. 
 
 
6. 
METHODOLOGICAL AND PROCESS GUIDANCE 
Based upon a knowledge of the theoretical assumptions and limitations associated with the 
treatment switching adjustment methods, the practicalities of their application in an economic 
evaluation context, and their performance in simulation studies it is possible to make practical 
recommendations upon how they should be used in future economic evaluations.  Given the 
limitations associated with the switching adjustment methods these recommendations cannot 
be entirely conclusive or specific, but given the current lack of understanding of these 
methods in the HTA arena they remain useful to make.  We would expect these 
recommendations to evolve with further research.  The recommendations are presented in the 
form of an analysis framework (see Figure 2).  It is important to note that these 
recommendations refer specifically to methods that adjust observed data in the presence of 
treatment switching; they do not incorporate methods such as the use of external datasets.  
However, when treatment switching arises, the possibility and practicality of using external 
data in order to estimate counterfactual survival times should be considered.  In addition, it 
should be noted that switching adjustment methods may be used in tandem with external data 
– switching adjustment concerns the events observed in the trial period, whereas economic 
models are often required to extrapolate into the future.  First data confounded by switching 
must be adjusted, and then the counterfactual data must be extrapolated – this is dealt with 
briefly in Step (5) of Figure 2, but is discussed in more detail in TSD 14, 1 which states that 
external validity and clinical plausibility is of the utmost importance in survival projections.  
Hence an investigation of relevant external datasets is likely to be useful whether or not 
treatment switching occurs. 
 
 
 


--- Page 39 ---
39 
 
Figure 2: Treatment switching analysis framework 
 


--- Page 40 ---
40 
 
Step (1) involves assessing the treatment switching mechanism and considering this in 
relation to the decision problem faced in the technology appraisal.  This should demonstrate 
whether and which adjustment methods are potentially applicable and relevant.  For instance, 
it may become apparent whether data on relevant switching indicators were collected (if they 
were not, the IPCW method is unlikely to be appropriate), or whether the comparator 
included in the RCT was relevant for the decision problem.  The time at which patients 
became able to switch treatments is also important to determine, as this helps identify 
whether two-stage methods are likely to be applicable (these will only be appropriate if 
switching is only permitted after a certain disease-related time-point).   
 
For Step (2), the proportion of patients switching treatment should be assessed.  If more than 
90% of control group patients switch the IPCW method is highly prone to bias, given a 
sample size in the region of 500.  This is likely to be the case for most cancer clinical trials, 
since sample sizes are rarely larger than the size of 500 (250 in each arm) tested in Latimer et 
al.’s initial simulation study.31  It is likely that the sample size would need to be substantially 
greater than 500 in order for the IPCW to produce unbiased results when the proportion of 
patients that switch is as high as 90%.  Further, problems may arise even with lower 
switching proportions.  For instance, if only 50% of control group patients switch, but this 
represents 90% of those patients who experienced disease progression (and thus became 
eligible to switch), the IPCW method will be prone to bias: it is the switching proportion in 
patients who became eligible to switch that is of primary importance.  A similar situation 
could occur if switching was only permitted in specific patients – for instance, those who had 
previously responded to treatment, or those with a specific biomarker present.  
Randomisation-based methods are relatively less affected by high levels of switching and 
therefore should be given precedence (unless there is evidence of a strong time-dependent 
treatment effect or the comparator included in the RCT is active, rendering the standard 
counterfactual survival model inappropriate). 
 
Step (3) involves drawing upon Steps (1) and (2) and further assessing the pivotal 
assumptions of each of the adjustment methods in order to further determine which may be 
potentially appropriate.  For the RPSFTM and IPE algorithm the “common treatment effect” 
assumption should be assessed.  Survival models with the randomised group included as a 
covariate and a switching indicator variable may be used, but the potential bias associated 
with these should be recognised.  Depending upon the extent to which treatment switching 


--- Page 41 ---
41 
 
occurred, log-cumulative hazard and quantile-quantile plots may remain useful for assessing 
the proportionality of hazards and the constancy of the acceleration factor over time.  If 
patients with different stages of disease were randomised into the trial, the treatment effect in 
these subgroups should be investigated to offer further evidence on the “common treatment 
effect” assumption, although this may also be prone to bias due to switching.   
 
Given the limitations associated with assessing the “common treatment effect” assumption 
using trial data, external data sources should be sought and expert opinion on the clinical and 
biological plausibility of the assumption should be routinely considered.  It is important to 
harness what is known by a variety of scientists and clinicians about the impact of patient 
characteristics and disease progression on the effects of the drug being studied.  If these 
analyses suggest that the “common treatment effect” assumption holds an RPSFTM or IPE 
approach should be used.  An IPCW approach may also produce low bias, but this is less 
certain.  For RPSFTM, IPE and IPCW methods it is important to consider the size of the 
treatment effect both in terms of a hazard ratio (HR) and an acceleration factor (AF). 
 
When using RPSFTM or IPE methods the duration of the treatment effect (i.e. whether it is 
likely to be maintained to any extent after treatment discontinuation) must be considered.  If 
it is likely that the treatment effect may be maintained beyond treatment discontinuation a 
“treatment group” application (or the use of a lagged treatment effect) might be considered.  
The decision of whether to take the standard “on treatment” approach or the “treatment 
group” approach should be justified based upon the economic evaluation decision problem, 
clinical opinion, biological plausibility and data availability.  It is likely to be appropriate to 
present each analysis, in order that the the sensitivity of survival estimates and cost-
effectiveness results to these can be shown.  Clinical expert opinion on whether treatment 
advantages are likely to cease, continue, or be reversed after treatment discontinuation may 
be important in justifying the chosen approach.  The comparator included in the RCT (i.e. 
whether active or not) must also be considered.  If the comparator is active the RPSFTM and 
IPE methods may not be appropriate, although a “treatment group” approach may be justified 
based upon assumptions made about the treatment pathways observed in the trial.   
 
It is important to note that a standard “on treatment” application of the RPSFTM or IPE 
methods provides an estimate of the treatment effect associated with full treatment with the 
experimental intervention – that is, it represents the treatment effect that would have been 


--- Page 42 ---
42 
 
observed if all patients in the experimental group received the experimental treatment 
throughout the trial (with no discontinuation) compared to zero treatment in the control 
group.  Usually this is not an appropriate treatment effect for the economic evaluation, 
because treatment discontinuation observed in the clinical trial is likely to reflect 
discontinuation that would occur in the real world.  Therefore, although it is valid to estimate 
untreated control group survival times using an “on treatment” approach, under the 
assumption that the treatment effect disappears upon discontinuation, these survival times 
should be compared to the observed experimental group survival times in order to provide a 
valid adjusted estimate of the treatment effect.  
 
For the IPCW the “no unmeasured confounders” assumption should be considered.  The 
likelihood that data on important covariates were not collected should be informed by clinical 
expert opinion as well as an assessment of covariate data reported from other trials in similar 
disease areas.  This alone is not sufficient to guarantee that the “no unmeasured confounders” 
assumption is satisfied, because unknown confounders may exist.  It is necessary to record all 
prognostic information that may have influenced decisions to switch – this includes the 
clinician’s opinion on whether a patient is suitable for switch, and patient circumstances and 
their preference for switching.  Information on these factors is not routinely collected in 
RCTs.  Combined with this, consideration should be given to whether the collection of 
covariate data stopped at any point during the trial (for example, at the point of disease 
progression) as this restricts the applicability of the IPCW method.  These issues should be 
considered in combination with those specified in Steps (1) and (2).  
 
When considering the use of two-stage methods the existence of an appropriate secondary 
baseline (such as disease progression) is pivotal.  These will only exist if there is a timepoint 
before which treatment switching could not occur.  If such a time-point exists two-stage 
methods are possible to apply, but their potential bias will be related to how soon after this 
point switching occurs – if there are long delays until switching the potential for bias 
associated with time-dependent confounding becomes important.  Whilst simulation studies 
have provided support for the use of two-stage methods,32,33,53 it should be recognised that 
further research on these methods – particularly on their sensitivity to departures from their 
assumptions (such as the proximity of switch to the secondary baseline, and the “no 
unmeasured confounders” assumption) would be valuable.    
 


--- Page 43 ---
43 
 
After applying the switching adjustment methods Step (4) involves a review of the output of 
the methods in order to help identify whether the methods are likely to have performed well.  
For RPSFTM, IPE and two-stage methods this includes a consideration of the degree of 
recensoring, and possibly a comparison of standard RPSFTM and IPE results to the results 
obtained when these methods are applied on a “treatment group” basis, in order to identify 
whether the treatment effect may have continued beyond treatment discontinuation.  It is also 
important to assess the g-estimation output in order to identify the success with which the 
RPSFTM method has identified a unique treatment effect, and whether RPSFTM and IPE 
methods produce treatment effects that result in equal counterfactual survival times between 
randomised groups.  For the IPCW it is particularly important to assess the weights calculated 
for each patient over time – instances where certain patients are allocated particularly high 
weights are likely to lead to erroneous IPCW results.  Outputs from two-stage methods may 
be used to help determine the appropriateness of other methods – for instance, if the two-
stage methods produce estimates of the treatment effect in the switching patients that are 
(not) similar to the effect estimated for patients randomised to the experimental group the 
RPSFTM / IPE methods may (not) be appropriate.    
 
In tandem with a consideration of complex switching adjustment methods, the results of a 
standard ITT analysis should be considered: if other methods are likely to have performed 
poorly the ITT analysis may provide least bias.  If the treatment effect is small (with a HR of 
approximately 0.75-1.00 in the experimental group, based upon the simulation study by 
Latimer et al.31) and there is evidence of switchers receiving a treatment effect that is around 
15% lower than that received by experimental group patients an ITT analysis is likely to be 
preferable to IPCW and RPSFTM / IPE methods (although this will still contain bias).  If the 
decrement in the treatment effect received by switchers is stronger, around 25%, the ITT 
analysis is even more likely to be preferable to IPCW and RPSFTM / IPE methods unless the 
treatment effect is high (equivalent to a HR of approximately 0.50).  Given the limitations 
associated with switching adjustment methods the ITT analysis should always be presented.  
All other things being equal, in situations where switching proportions are low and/or the 
treatment effect is low and/or the treatment effect is likely to be much reduced in switchers, 
the ITT analysis may provide least bias.   
 
After adjustment methods have been assessed based upon their theoretical and practical 
suitability as well as their performance in Steps 1-4, Step (5) addresses combining the 


--- Page 44 ---
44 
 
adjustment methods with an extrapolation approach (if required).  This is based upon the 
statistical output of the applied adjustment method.  For the RPSFTM, IPE and two-stage 
methods an analysis investigating the impact of recensoring on the tail of the counterfactual 
Kaplan-Meier curve should be undertaken to identify whether recensoring is likely to lead to 
inappropriate extrapolations.  A “survivor function” approach whereby the adjusted treatment 
effect is applied to an extrapolation of unrecensored experimental group survival times may 
be preferable.  However the choice of extrapolation method should follow the advice offered 
by NICE DSU Technical Support Document 14 where possible.1,26  For IPCW appropriate 
methods should be used to recreate a dataset to reflect the weighted Kaplan-Meier if a 
proportional hazards approach to extrapolation is not to be taken.  
 
Finally, when preliminary analysis of trial data suggests that the choice of preferable 
adjustment method is unclear, sensitivity analysis should be undertaken to demonstrate the 
uncertainty associated with the methodology used. 
 
 
7. 
DISCUSSION 
Treatment switching adjustment methods have often been used poorly and have been 
inadequately described in economic evaluations.  The review of NICE TAs presented in 
Section 5 of this TSD demonstrates that while some potentially appropriate methods have 
been used, more often simple methods that are highly prone to bias have been relied upon.  
Where more complex, potentially appropriate methods such as the RPSFTM and IPCW have 
been used, discussion of these methods within the appraisal documents has been lacking – 
thus failing to consider their key limitations.49,50  This is important because the application of 
switching adjustment methods within an economic model often drastically alters the 
estimated incremental cost effectiveness ratio.  The analysis framework presented in Section 
6 aims to reduce the use of inappropriate and inconsistent methods, by promoting a rigorous 
procedure for identifying and justifying appropriate switching adjustment methods.  
  
Because the RPSFTM/IPE and IPCW methods work in very different ways and make very 
different assumptions, one individual method is unlikely to always be better than the other.  
Trial and switching characteristics must be considered on a case-by-case basis in order to 
assess which switching adjustment method is likely to be most appropriate.  The IPCW 


--- Page 45 ---
45 
 
method has observational data origins and its reliance on the “no unmeasured confounders” 
assumption represents a very important limitation which may be difficult to justify in an RCT 
setting.  RPSFTM and IPE methods are limited by the “common treatment effect” assumption 
which may appear clinically implausible in situations where treatment switching occurs after 
disease progression.  Previously unused simple two-stage methods should be considered, 
particularly in circumstances in which RPSFTM, IPE and IPCW methods are highly prone to 
bias.  These require a suitable secondary baseline to be present but do not make the “common 
treatment effect” assumption and only require the “no unmeasured confounders” assumption 
to hold at the secondary baseline time-point.  However, this is at the cost of the potentially 
even stronger assumption that there is no time-dependent confounding between the secondary 
baseline and the time of switch.  Where switching occurs soon after the secondary baseline 
the scope for such time-dependent confounding is limited, but this is not the case if switching 
happens substantially after the secondary baseline.   
 
While the analysis framework presented in Section 6 attempts to enhance the probability that 
inappropriate adjustment methods are avoided, in some scenarios no “good” methods are 
available.  In situations where the “common treatment effect” assumption appears 
unreasonable and the proportion of patients who switch is very high (for example, 
approximately 90% in a control group sample size in the region of 250 subjects) the 
RPSFTM and IPE methods may not be appropriate and the IPCW method is prone to high 
levels of bias.  Very high switching proportions combined with small sample sizes are likely 
to cause two-stage methods also to become prone to error and bias; although this was not 
demonstrated in Latimer et al.’s simulation studies,31,33 these methods should be used with 
caution in such circumstances.  This reflects the current lack of suitable methods to address 
realistic scenarios and hence research into novel methods would be highly valuable.   
 
It is clear that the use of several treatment switching adjustment methods require the 
collection of suitable data in clinical trials.  Data on patient characteristics that are prognostic 
and that are predictive of treatment switching are required at baseline and over time.  If 
switching is to be permitted, clinical trialists should develop protocols that ensure that the 
required data are collected during the trial in order to enhance the likelihood that appropriate 
adjustments can be made for subsequent HTA analyses.     
 


--- Page 46 ---
46 
 
It is worth reiterating that the ITT analysis remains important even in the presence of 
treatment switching.  If the novel treatment is found to be cost-effective under an ITT 
analysis – despite treatment switching – this may increase decision makers’ confidence that it 
represents a cost-effective use of resources.  In addition, when switchers are expected to 
receive a much lower treatment effect than patients randomised to the experimental treatment 
an ITT analysis may result in relatively low bias.   
 
This TSD focuses upon adjusting survival time estimates in the presence of treatment 
switching from the control treatment onto the experimental treatment.  In some circumstances 
it may be desirable to also adjust for switching from the experimental treatment onto the 
control treatment, or for switching onto other alternative therapies – although often such 
switches may represent realistic treatment pathways that do not require adjustment within an 
economic evaluation context.  RPSFTM and IPE methods are designed to cope with 
treatment switching in either direction (provided the control treatment is placebo, or non-
active), but are not suitable when switching is to a third treatment.  In such circumstances a 
multi-parameter RPSFTM would be required, but these have been shown to perform poorly 
in practice.17,27,28  Theoretically IPCW and two-stage methods could be adapted to adjust for 
switching in any direction to any treatment, with models being applied to different groups as 
appropriate.  However, increasing the number of adjustments made to the observed dataset 
may further compound the data requirements associated with these methods, potentially 
rendering them prone to increasing bias.  Alternatively, when switching from the control 
group to the experimental treatment is followed by a switch to a post-study treatment and 
adjusting for both of these switches is required, combining RPSFTM (to adjust for the initial 
switch) and IPCW (to adjust for the post-study treatment) may be considered. 
 
It is important to note that other parameters included in an economic evaluation are likely to 
be affected by treatment switching.  Where quality of life and cost data are collected within a 
clinical trial affected by switching, ITT analyses of these outcomes will be confounded.  
Aside from simply excluding the costs of treatments that were switched to, or only 
considering quality of life scores in non-switchers, we are unaware of attempts to adjust for 
the effects of switching on these outcomes in HTA.  The problem may not be as serious as for 
survival estimates – quality of life scores are often based upon health states rather than 
treatment group, and direct and indirect costs are often based upon assumptions or external 
sources – but further research in these areas would be valuable.  When the mean outcome is 


--- Page 47 ---
47 
 
of interest, a structural mean model may be suitable, and with repeated outcomes, a structural 
nested mean model may be appropriate.9-12  Adjusting for these outcomes is not discussed in 
detail in this TSD.   
 
Finally, it is important to recognise that this TSD focusses upon the use of within-trial 
statistical methods to address the treatment switching problem, rather than methods that make 
use of external data.  Often suitable external data (for example, external trials not confounded 
by switching, or registry data) will not be available, but where it is methods to formally 
synthesise data would have value.  This is particularly important because the statistical 
adjustment methods focussed upon in this TSD often produce highly uncertain estimates of 
the treatment effect, with wide confidence intervals – reflecting the uncertainty associated 
with estimating counterfactual survival times and treatment effects.  Related to this, this TSD 
only considers situations where patient-level data are available – research into the potential 
for making adjustments for switching without such data, particularly for use within indirect 
comparisons, is ongoing.13  Also, we only briefly discuss combining extrapolation methods 
with switching adjustment methods in this TSD – further research in this area would be 
beneficial. 
 
 
8.   
CONCLUSIONS 
It is clear that treatment switching is an important factor in a substantial proportion of HTAs, 
particularly in the oncology setting.  This TSD offers recommendations on the use of 
treatment switching adjustment methods that, if used, enhance the likelihood that appropriate 
methods are identified and used in future HTAs.  In addition we recommend that clinical 
trialists ensure that suitable data are collected within RCTs to allow switching adjustment 
methods to be applied.   


--- Page 48 ---
48 
 
9. 
REFERENCES 
 
1.  Latimer NR. NICE DSU Technical Support Document 14: Survival analysis for 
economic evaluations alongside clinical trials - extrapolation with patient-level data. 
2011; available from 
http://www.nicedsu.org.uk/NICE%20DSU%20TSD%20Survival%20analysis.updated
%20March%202013.pdf  
 
2.  Latimer, N.R., Abrams, K.R., Lambert, P.C., Crowther, M.J., Wailoo, A.J., Morden, 
J.P. et al. Adjusting Survival Time Estimates to Account for Treatment Switching in 
Randomized Controlled Trials - an Economic Evaluation Context: Methods, 
Limitations, and Recommendations. Medical Decision Making 2014.  
 
3.  Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER). US Department of Health and 
Human Services Food and Drug Administration. Guidance for Industry: Clinical trial 
endpoints for the approval of cancer drugs and biologics. 2007; available from 
http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/G
uidances/ucm071590.pdf  
 
4.  Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP). Appendix 1 to the 
guideline on the evaluation of anticancer medicinal products in man 
(CHMP/EWP/205/95 REV.3). Methodological considerations for using progression-
free survival (PFS) as primary endpoint in confirmatory trials for registration. 
European Medicines Agency, editor. 2006.  
 
5.  National Institute for health and Clinical Excellence. Guide to the methods of 
technology appraisal. 2013; available from http://publications.nice.org.uk/guide-to-
the-methods-of-technology-appraisal-2013-pmg9 (accessed July 2013). 
 
6.  Briggs, A., Claxton, K., Sculpher, M. Decision modelling for health economic 
evaluation. Oxford University Press Inc., New York; 2006. 
 
7.  Gold, M.R., Siegel, J.E., Russell, L.B., Weinstein, M.C. Cost-effectiveness in health 
and medicine. Oxford University Press, USA, 1996. 
 
8.  Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health. Guidelnes for the economic 
evaluation of health technologies. 2006. Canada, 3rd edition.  
 
9.  Goetghebeur, E., Lapp, K. The effect of treatment compliance in a placebo-controlled 
trial: Regression with unpaired data. Applied Statistics 1997; 46:351-364. 
 10.  Fischer-Lapp, K., Goetghebeur, E. Practical properties of some structural mean 
analyses of the effect of compliance in randomized trials. Controlled Clinical Trials 
1999; 20:531-546. 
 11.  Robins, J.M. Correcting for non-compliance in randomized trials using structural 
nested mean models. Communications in Statistics-Theory and Methods 1994; 
23:2379-2412. 
 12.  White, I.R. Uses and limitations of randomization-based efficacy estimators. 
Statistical Methods in Medical Research 2005; 14(4):327-347. 


--- Page 49 ---
49 
 
 13.  Boucher, R.H., Abrams, K.R., Crowther, M.J., Lambert, P.C., Morden, J.P., Wailoo, 
A.J. et al. PRM201: Adjusting for treatment switching in clinical trials when only 
summary data are available - An evaluation of potential methods. Value In Health 
2013; 16, A323 - A636.  
 14.  Lee, Y., Ellenberg, J.H., Hirtz, D.G., Nelson, K.B. Analysis of clinical trials by 
treatment actually received: is it really an option? Statistics in Medicine 1991; 
10(10):1595-1605. 
 15.  Horwitz, R.I., Horwitz, S.M. Adherence to treatment and health outcomes. Archives 
of Internal Medicine 1993; 153(16):1863. 
 16.  Robins, J.M., Finkelstein, D.M. Correcting for Noncompliance and Dependent 
Censoring in an AIDS Clinical Trial with Inverse Probability of Censoring Weighted 
(IPCW) Log Rank Tests. Biometrics 2000; 56(3):779-788. 
 17.  Robins, J.M., Greenland, S. Adjusting for differential rates of prophylaxis therapy for 
PCP in high-versus low-dose AZT treatment arms in an AIDS randomized trial. 
Journal of the American Statistical Association 1994; 89(427):737-749. 
 18.  Yamaguchi, T., Ohashi, Y. Adjusting for differential proportions of second-line 
treatment in cancer clinical trials. Part I: Structural nested models and marginal 
structural models to test and estimate treatment arm effects. Statistics in Medicine 
2004; 23(13):1991-2003. 
 19.  Hernan, M.A., Brumback, B., Robins, J.M. Marginal structural models to estimate the 
joint causal effect of nonrandomized treatments. Journal of the American Statistical 
Association 2001; 96(454):440-448. 
 20.  Robins, J.M. Marginal structural models versus structural nested models as tools for 
causal inference. Statistical models in epidemiology, the environment, and clinical 
trials. Springer; 2000; 95-133. 
 21.  Robins, J.M., Tsiatis, A.A. Correcting for non-compliance in randomized trials using 
rank preserving structural failure time models. Communications in Statistics-Theory 
and Methods 1991; 20(8):2609-2631. 
 22.  Hernan, M.A., Robins, J.M. Instruments for causal inference: An Epidemiologist's 
dream? Epidemiology 2006; 17:360-372. 
 23.  Senn S.J. Covariate imbalance and random allocation in clinical trials. Statistics in 
Medicine 1989; 8(4):467-475. 
 24.  Hampson L.V., Metcalfe C. Incorporating prognostic factors into causal estimators: a 
comparison of methods for randomised controlled trials with a time-to-event outcome. 
Statistics in Medicine 2012; 31(26):3073-3088. 
 25.  Branson, M., Whitehead, J. Estimating a treatment effect in survival studies in which 
patients switch treatment. Statistics in Medicine 2002; 21(17):2449-2463. 


--- Page 50 ---
50 
 
 26.  Latimer, N.R. Survival Analysis for Economic Evaluations Alongside Clinical Trials: 
Extrapolation with Patient-Level Data. Inconsistencies, Limitations, and a Practical 
Guide. Medical Decision Making 2013. 
 27.  White, I.R., Babiker, A.G., Walker, S., Darbyshire, J.H. Randomization-based 
methods for correcting for treatment changes: examples from the Concorde trial. 
Statistics in Medicine 1999; 18(19):2617-2634. 
 28.  Yamaguchi, T., Ohashi, Y. Adjusting for differential proportions of second-line 
treatment in cancer clinical trials. Part II: An application in a clinical trial of 
unresectable non small cell lung cancer. Statistics in Medicine 2004; 23(13):2005-
2022. 
 29.  Guyot, P., Welton, N.J., Ouwens, M.J., Ades, A.E. Survival time outcomes in 
randomized, controlled trials and meta-analyses: the parallel universes of efficacy and 
cost-effectiveness. Value In Health 2011; 14(5):640-646. 
 30.  Guyot, P., Ades, A.E., Ouwens, M.J., Welton, N.J. Enhanced secondary analysis of 
survival data: reconstructing the data from published Kaplan-Meier survival curves. 
BMC Medical Research Methodology 2012; 12(1):9. 
 31.  Latimer, N., Abrams, K., Lambert, P., Crowther, M.J., Wailoo, A., Morden, J.P. et al. 
Adjusting for treatment switching in randomised controlled trials – a simulation study. 
University of Sheffield Health Economics and Decision Science Discussion Paper 
No.13/06 2013. 2013.  
 32.  Morden, J., Lambert, P., Latimer, N., Abrams, K., Wailoo, A. Assessing methods for 
dealing with treatment switching in randomised controlled trials: a simulation study. 
BMC Medical Research Methodology 2011; 11(1):4. 
 33.  Latimer, N.R., Abrams, K.R., Lambert, P.C., Crowther, M.J., Morden, J.P. Assessing 
methods for dealing with treatment crossover in clinical trials: A follow-up simulation 
study. University of Sheffield Health Economics and Decision Science Discussion 
Paper No 14/01 2014. 
 34.  Law M.G., Kaldor J.M. Survival analyses of randomized clinical trials adjusted for 
patients who switch treatments. Statistics in Medicine 1996; 15(19):2069-2076. 
 35.  Loeys T., Goetghebeur E. A causal proportional hazards estimator for the effect of 
treatment actually received in a randomized trial with all-or-nothing compliance. 
Biometrics 2003; 59(1):100-105. 
 36.  Walker, A.S., White, I.R., Babiker, A.G. Parametric randomisation-based methods for 
correcting for treatment changes in the assessment of the causal effect of treatment. 
Statistics in Medicine 2004; 23(4):571-590. 
 37.  White, I.R. Survival analysis of randomized trials with treatment switching. Statistics 
in Medicine 1997; 16(22):2619-2620. 
 38.  Howe, C.J., Cole, S.R., Chmiel, J.S., Mu+¦oz, A. Limitation of inverse probability-of-
censoring weights in estimating survival in the presence of strong selection bias. 
American Journal of Epidemiology 2011; 173(5):569-577. 


--- Page 51 ---
51 
 
 39.  Vermorken, J.B., Mesia, R., Rivera, F., Remenar, E., Kawecki, A., Rottey, S. et al. 
Platinum-based chemotherapy plus cetuximab in head and neck cancer. New England 
Journal of Medicine 2008; 359(11):1116-1127. 
 40.  Roche Products Ltd. Achieving clinical excellence in the treatment of relapsed non-
small cell lung cancer, Tarceva (erlotinib). 2006.  NICE STA submission.  
 41.  Bond, M., Hoyle, M., Moxham, T., Napier, M., Anderson, R. The clinical and cost-
effectiveness of sunitinib for the treatment of gastrointestinal stromal tumours: a 
critique of the submission from Pfizer. Exeter, UK: Peninsula Technology Assessment 
Group (PenTAG) 2009. 
 42.  Lewis, R., Bagnall, A.M., Forbes, C., Shirran, E., Duffy, S., Kleijnen, J. et al. A rapid 
and systematic review of the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
trastuzumab for breast cancer. Technology Assessment Report Commissioned by the 
NHS R&D HTA Programme on Behalf of the National Institute for Clinical 
Excellence 2001. 
 43.  National Institute for health and Clinical Excellence. Final Appraisal Determination: 
Imatinib for the treatment of unresectable and/or metastatic gastro-intestinal stromal 
tumours, TA86. 2004. London, NICE.  
 44.  Janssen-Cilag Ltd. STA submission to NICE: Velcade (Bortezomib) for the treatment 
of multiple myeloma patients at first relapse. 2006.  
 45.  Hoyle, M., Rogers, G., Garside, R., Moxham, T., Stein, K. The clinical-and cost 
effectiveness of lenalidomide for multiple myeloma in people who have received at 
least one prior therapy: an evidence review of the submission from Celgene. 
Submission to NICE As Part of STA Program 2008. 
 46.  Hind, D., Tappenden, P., Tumur, I., Eggington, S., Sutcliffe, P., Ryan, A. Technology 
assessment report commissioned by the HTA Programme on behalf of the National 
Institute for Clinical Excellence: The use of irinotecan, oxaliplatin and raltitrexed for 
the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer: systematic review and economic 
evaluation (review of Guidance No. 33), Addendum: Economic evaluation of 
irinotecan and oxaliplatin for the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer. Produced 
by The School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield. January 2005. 
2010.  
 47.  Merck Serono Ltd. Single Technology Appraisal Submission: Erbitux (cetuximab) for 
the first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. 2008.  
 48.  National Institute for health and Clinical Excellence. Guidance on the use of 
trastuzumab for the treatment of advanced breast cancer, NICE Technology Appraisal 
Guidance No 34. 2002. London, NICE.  
 49.  National Institute for health and Clinical Excellence. Pazopanib for the first line 
treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma, TA 215. 2011.  London. NICE.  
 50.  National Institute for health and Clinical Excellence. Everolimus for the second-line 
treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, TA219. 2011. London, NICE.  


--- Page 52 ---
52 
 
 51.  National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence. Final Appraisal Determination:  
Lenalidomide for the treatment of multiple myeloma in people who have received at 
least one prior therapy. 2009; TA171.  
 52.  Ishak, K.J., Caro, J.J., Drayson, M.T., Dimopoulos, M., Weber, D., Augustson, B. et 
al. Adjusting for patient crossover in clinical trials using external data: a case study of 
lenalidomide for advanced multiple myeloma. Value In Health 2011; 14(5):672-678. 
 53.  Latimer, N.R., Abrams, K.R., Lambert, P.C., Crowther, M.J., Wailoo, A.J., Morden, 
J.P. et al. Adjusting for treatment switching in randomised controlled trials – a 
simulation study. University of Sheffield Health Economics and Decision Science 
Discussion Paper No 13/06 2013. 
 54.  Robins, J.M. Structural nested failure time models. Encyclopedia of Biostatistics 
1998. 
 55.  Mark, S.D., Robins, J.M. A method for the analysis of randomized trials with 
compliance information: An application to the multiple risk factor intervention trial. 
Controlled Clinical Trials 1993; 14(2):79-97. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 


--- Page 53 ---
53 
 
APPENDIX A: COMPLEX SWITCHING ADJUSTMENT METHODS 
 
IPCW 
Robins and Finkelstein (2000) recommend using “stabilised” inverse probability of censoring 
weights, as these are shown to be more efficient.16  Unstabilised weights are simply the 
inverse of the conditional probability of having remained uncensored until time t conditional 
on baseline and time-dependent covariates, whereas stabilised weights are the conditional 
probability of having remained uncensored until time t given baseline covariates, divided by 
the conditional probability of having remained uncensored until time t given baseline and 
time-dependent covariates.  The stabilised weight will be equal to 1 for all t if the history of 
the included prognostic factors for failure do not impact upon the hazard of censoring at t – 
thus there would be no informative censoring and treatment switching would be random.16   
Formally, the stabilised weights applied to each individual for time interval (t), as specified 
by Hernan et al. are:19  
ܹ෡ሺݐሻൌ∏
௉௥ሾ஼ሺ௞ሻୀ଴|஼̅ሺ௞ିଵሻୀ଴,஺̅ሺ௞ିଵሻ,௏,்வ௞ሿ
௉௥ሾ஼ሺ௞ሻୀ଴|஼̅ሺ௞ିଵሻୀ଴,஺̅ሺ௞ିଵሻ,௅തሺ௞ሻ,்வ௞ሿ
௧
௞ୀ଴
    [A1] 
where ܥሺ݇ሻ is an indicator function demonstrating whether or not informative censoring 
(switching) had occurred at the end of interval k, and ܥ̅ሺ݇െ1ሻ denotes censoring history up 
to the end of the previous interval ሺ݇െ1ሻ.  ܣ̅ሺ݇െ1ሻ denotes an individual’s treatment 
history up until the end of the previous interval ሺ݇െ1ሻ, and V is an array of an individual’s 
baseline covariates.  ܮതሺ݇ሻ denotes the history of an individual’s time-dependent covariates 
measured at or prior to the beginning of interval k, and includes V.  Hence the numerator of 
(2) represents the probability of an individual remaining uncensored (i.e. not having 
switched) at the end of interval k given that that individual was uncensored at the end of the 
previous interval ሺ݇െ1ሻ, conditional on baseline characteristics and past treatment history. 
The denominator represents that same probability conditional on baseline characteristics, 
time-dependent characteristics and past treatment history. When the cause of informative 
censoring is treatment switching, past treatment history is removed from the model because 
as soon as switching occurs the individual is censored. 
 
 
 


--- Page 54 ---
54 
 
The IPCW adjusted Cox hazard ratio (HR) can be estimated by fitting a time-dependent Cox 
model to a dataset in which switching patients are artificially censored.  The model includes 
baseline covariates and uses the time-varying stabilised weights for each patient and each 
time interval.  Robust variance estimators or bootstrapping should be used to estimate 
confidence intervals.19,20 
 
RPSFTM 
An accelerated failure time counterfactual survival model such as that presented by Robins 
(1998) is used:54 
 
ܷ௜ൌ׬
expሾ߰ܣ௜ሺݐሻሿ݀ݐ
்೔
଴
     [A2] 
 
where U is the counterfactual survival time for each patient, which is a known function of 
observed survival time (T), observed treatment ( ܣ௜ሺݐሻ, where ܣ௜ሺݐሻ is a binary time-
dependent variable equal to 1 or 0 over time), and the unknown treatment effect parameter ߰.   
 
Counterfactual survival time is a sum of observed time spent on treatment and observed time 
spent off treatment, where time spent on treatment is multiplied by the factor expሺ߰ሻ.  g-
estimation involves testing a series of potential values for ߰, and the value of the treatment 
effect (߰଴) is estimated as the value of ߰ for which counterfactual survival is independent of 
randomised groups.  Within the g-estimation process a log-rank or Wilcoxon test can be used 
for the RPSFTM g-test in a non-parametric setting, testing the hypothesis that the baseline 
survival curves are identical in the two treatment groups, or a Wald test could be used for 
parametric models.55  The log-rank test is conventional, and weights each risk set equally.  It 
may be optimal if there are proportional hazards.  However, if hazards are not proportional 
over time an alternative test – such as the Wilcoxon, which weights by the number in each 
risk set – may be preferable.  The point estimate of ߰ is that for which the test (z) statistic 
equals zero.  Because the RPSFTM is a randomisation-based efficacy estimator (RBEE) the 
p-value from the ITT analysis is maintained.27    
 
White et al. demonstrate that censoring is problematic for the RPSFTM.27  A positive or 
negative treatment effect may increase or decrease the probability that the survival time of an 


--- Page 55 ---
55 
 
individual is censored, and, where treatment switching occurs, treatment received is likely to 
be associated with prognosis.  In turn, this means that the censoring of counterfactual survival 
times may depend on prognostic factors and therefore be informative.27  Bias associated with 
this can be avoided by recensoring counterfactual survival times at the earliest possible 
censoring time given the treatment effect ߰.27  Thus for each patient in treatment groups at 
risk of switching the recensored censoring time is the minimum of the observed 
administrative censoring time (ܥ௜) and the product expሺ߰ሻܥ௜.  If the patient experienced an 
event, but the recensoring time is less than the event time, that patient has their survival time 
recensored and their event is no longer observed. 
 
IPE ALGORITHM 
This method uses the same accelerated failure time model as the RPSFTM, but a parametric 
failure time model is fitted to the original, unadjusted ITT data to obtain an initial estimate of 
߰.  The observed failure times of switching patients are then re-estimated using expሺ߰ሻ and 
the counterfactual survival time model presented in equation [A2], and the treatment groups 
are then compared again using a parametric failure time model.  This will give an updated 
estimate of ߰, and the process of re-estimating the observed survival times of switching 
patients is repeated.  This iterative process is continued until the new estimate for expሺ߰ሻ is 
very close to the previous estimate (the authors suggest within 10-5 of the previous estimate 
but offer no particular rationale for this), at which point the process is said to have 
converged.25  Bootstrapping is recommended to obtain standard errors and confidence 
intervals for the treatment effect.25     
 
 
 


--- Page 56 ---
56 
 
Table A 1: NICE Technology Appraisals (TAs) included in the review 
TA 
Number 
Title 
Disease Stage 
Date Issued 
TA3 
Ovarian cancer - taxanes (replaced by TA55)  
Advanced 
May 2000 
TA6 
Breast cancer - taxanes (replaced by TA30)  
Advanced 
Jun 2000 
TA23 
Brain cancer - temozolomide  
Advanced 
Apr 2001 
TA25 
Pancreatic cancer - gemcitabine  
Advanced / 
Metastatic 
May 2001 
TA26 
Lung cancer - docetaxel, paclitaxel, gemcitabine and 
vinorelbine (updated by and incorporated into CG24 Lung 
cancer)  
Advanced / 
Metastatic 
Jun 2001 
TA28 
Ovarian cancer - topotecan (replaced by TA91)  
Advanced 
Jul 2001 
TA29 
Leukaemia (lymphocytic) - fludarabine (replaced by TA119)  
Advanced 
Sep 2001 
TA30 
Breast cancer - taxanes (review)(replaced by CG81)  
Advanced 
Sep 2001 
TA34 
Breast cancer - trastuzumab  
Metastatic 
Mar 2002 
TA33 
Colorectal cancer (advanced) - irinotecan, oxaliplatin & 
raltitrexed (replaced by TA93)  
Advanced 
Mar 2002 
TA37 
Lymphoma (follicular non-Hodgkin's) - rituximab (replaced by 
TA137)  
Advanced / 
Metastatic 
Mar 2002 
TA45 
Ovarian cancer (advanced) - pegylated liposomal doxorubicin 
hydrochloride (replaced by TA91)  
Advanced 
Jul 2002 
TA50 
Leukaemia (chronic myeloid) - imatinib (replaced by TA70)  
All stages 
Oct 2002 
TA54 
Breast cancer - vinorelbine (replaced by CG81)  
Advanced / 
Metastatic 
Dec 2002 
TA55 
Ovarian cancer - paclitaxel (review)  
Advanced 
Jan 2003 
TA62 
Breast cancer - capecitabine (replaced by CG81)  
Advanced / 
Metastatic 
May 2003 
TA61 
Colorectal cancer - capecitabine and tegafur uracil  
Metastatic 
May 2003 
TA65 
Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma - rituximab  
Advanced / 
Metastatic 
Sep 2003 
TA70 
Leukaemia (chronic myeloid) - imatinib  
All stages 
Oct 2003 
TA86 
Gastro-intestinal stromal tumours (GIST) - imatinib  
Metastatic 
Oct 2004 
TA91 
Ovarian cancer (advanced) - paclitaxel, pegylated liposomal 
doxorubicin hydrochloride and topotecan (review)  
Advanced 
May 2005 
TA93 
Colorectal cancer (advanced) - irinotecan, oxaliplatin and 
raltitrexed (review)  
Advanced 
Aug 2005 
TA101 
Prostate cancer (hormone-refractory) - docetaxel  
Metastatic 
Jun 2006 
TA105 
Colorectal cancer - laparoscopic surgery (review)  
All stages 
Aug 2006 
TA110 
Follicular lymphoma - rituximab   
Advanced / 
Sep 2006 


--- Page 57 ---
57 
 
TA 
Number 
Title 
Disease Stage 
Date Issued 
Metastatic 
TA116 
Breast cancer - gemcitabine   
Metastatic 
Jan 2007 
TA118 
Colorectal cancer (metastatic) - bevacizumab & cetuximab   
Metastatic 
Jan 2007 
TA119 
Leukaemia (lymphocytic) - fludarabine  
All stages 
Feb 2007 
TA121 
Glioma (newly diagnosed and high grade) - carmustine 
implants and temozolomide  
Advanced 
Jun 2007 
TA124 
Lung cancer (non-small-cell) - pemetrexed   
Advanced / 
Metastatic 
Aug 2007 
TA129 
Multiple myeloma - bortezomib   
Advanced 
Oct 2007 
TA135 
Mesothelioma - pemetrexed disodium   
Advanced 
Jan 2008 
TA137 
Lymphoma (follicular non-Hodgkin's) - rituximab   
Advanced / 
Metastatic 
Feb 2008 
TA145 
Head and neck cancer - cetuximab   
Advanced 
Jun 2008 
TA162 
Lung cancer (non-small-cell) – erlotinib  
Advanced / 
Metastatic 
Nov 2008 
TA169 
Renal cell carcinoma - sunitinib  
Advanced / 
Metastatic 
Mar 2009 
TA171 
Multiple myeloma - lenalidomide  
Advanced 
Jun 2009 
TA172 
Head and neck cancer (squamous cell carcinoma) - cetuximab  
Advanced / 
Metastatic 
Jun 2009 
TA174 
Leukaemia (chronic lymphocytic, first line) - rituximab   
Advanced 
Jul 2009 
TA178 
Renal cell carcinoma  
Advanced / 
Metastatic 
Aug 2009 
TA176 
Colorectal cancer (first line) - cetuximab  
Metastatic 
Aug 2009 
TA179 
Gastrointestinal stromal tumours - sunitinib  
Advanced / 
Metastatic 
Sep 2009 
TA181 
Lung cancer (non-small cell, first line treatment) - pemetrexed  
Advanced / 
Metastatic 
Sep 2009 
TA183 
Cervical cancer (recurrent) - topotecan  
Metastatic 
Oct 2009 
TA184 
Lung cancer (small-cell) - topotecan   
Advanced 
Nov 2009 
 
 
 
 
