
--- Page 1 ---
1 
Statistical Considerations When Planning Phase I Clinical Trials in Oncology  
- From the Safety Perspective 
（Early Consideration） 
 
December 4, 2024 
Center for Product Evaluation 
Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
From a healthcare and hygiene perspective, regarding drugs for which a thorough understanding of 
the actual situation of clinical trials is considered essential, their clinical trial plans must be submitted 
to the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency. If an investigational drug is a new active 
ingredient, a new route of administration, or a new combination drug, and it is the first time that the 
drug has been administered to Japanese participants, its clinical trial plan will be subject to the 30-
day-CTN Review.1), 2) The 30-day-CTN Review is necessary to prevent healthcare and hygiene hazards, 
and it is often conducted for the clinical trial plan for Phase I trials. 
Phase I trials in general drug development are conducted on healthy volunteers to evaluate initial 
safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics, etc., and in the subsequent Phase II trials, the dosage and 
administration are explored using patients with the target disease. On the other hand, in the 
development of oncology drugs, there are concerns about strong toxicity. Therefore, the purpose of 
phase I trials of oncology drugs is often to evaluate tolerability, safety, pharmacokinetics, etc. in cancer 
patients, and to further investigate and determine the dosage and administration. For Phase I trials of 
oncology drugs, it is necessary to carefully consider the design of the clinical trial to ensure patient 
safety. 
In traditional phase I trials of oncology drugs, the concept is that the maximum tolerated dose 
(MTD) is defined as the highest dose within an acceptable range of toxicity and that the maximum 
efficacy is expected at the MTD, based on the assumption that efficacy and toxicity will increase in a 
dose-dependent manner. In addition to estimating the MTD while evaluating for tolerability in patients, 
the recommended dose for Phase II and later trials is determined based on the estimated MTD. In 
recent years, various designs have been adopted for the dose-escalation design of phase I trials of 
oncology drugs, and there are also various methods for estimating the MTD. In the 30-day-CTN review, 
it is necessary to review whether the dose-escalation design adopted in the clinical trial plan is 
preventing healthcare and hygiene hazards, along with, if necessary, the evaluation results of the 
operating characteristics of the dose-escalation design. 
To reduce the burden on the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA) of preparing 


--- Page 2 ---
2 
inquiries and on the sponsor of preparing responses to those inquiries, a "Check List for Inquiries on 
Initial Clinical Trial Notification" has been made public. 3) The checklist also mentions minimum 
information that should be included to explain the appropriateness of the dose-escalation design, 
particularly regarding tolerability evaluation. The purpose of this document is to further reduce the 
burden mentioned above by specifically introducing factors and points to consider that could affect 
the operating characteristics of the dose-escalation design based on statistical considerations, 
particularly from a safety perspective. These points for consideration are not intended to indicate the 
characteristics of various dose-escalation designs or the pros and cons of their MTD selection 
performance. The selection of a dose-escalation design for individual clinical trial planning is assumed 
to be considered in accordance with the development status and is not necessarily based solely on the 
MTD selection performance and safety assurance. If a discussion is needed regarding a specific dose-
escalation-design, please use the pre-Phase I consultation meeting at the PMDA. 
In addition, this document introduces points to consider when conducting dose-finding based on 
statistical considerations in Phase I trials involving Japanese participants, and these points may not 
necessarily apply when planning Phase I trials involving Japanese participants based on the results of 
dose-finding conducted overseas. 
Please note that the approaches outlined in this document have been developed based on tolerability 
evaluation methods as of the time of publication and may change in the future based on new findings 
and other information. 
 
2. 
Basic principles of evaluation of dose-escalation designs in 30-day-CTN review 
The purpose of conducting a 30-day-CTN review is to confirm that appropriate measures are being 
taken to ensure patient protection is given top priority in all circumstances in terms of safety, before 
the initiation of a clinical trial. 
The operating characteristics of the dose-escalation design adopted in the clinical trial plan can be 
evaluated by simulating the behavior of dose escalation and dose selection under multiple conditions 
(see Chapter 3). When evaluating operating characteristics, it is important to consider a variety of 
scenarios based on the anticipated situation and then examine whether safety can be ensured. 
Also, considering the purpose of conducting a 30-day-CTN review, it is important to evaluate the 
operating characteristics of the dose-escalation design while giving sufficient consideration to the 
content for which specific trial plans have not yet been decided at the initiation of the clinical trial. 
Even when there are limitations to the preliminary investigation, it is necessary to explain whether the 
adopted dose-escalation design ensures safety. When adopting a dose-escalation design that allows for 
flexible measures according to the situation during the clinical trial, it is necessary to fully consider 
the impact of selected measures on safety. For example, when considering dose finding in combination 
therapy after dose finding in monotherapy, the evaluation of the operating characteristics of dose 


--- Page 3 ---
3 
escalation in combination therapy should also be conducted at the time of submitting the clinical trial 
notification (see Section 3.3). 
 
3. 
Evaluation of operating characteristics 
3.1. 
Contents that require consideration and explanation 
When evaluating the operating characteristics of a dose-escalation design, the following points 
should be considered and explained at least. 
 
Dose-escalation design 
In addition to the design-specific settings (prior distributions, parameters, etc.), the number of 
doses (dose levels), cohort size, etc., the following points also need to be explained. 
 
Rules for dose escalation 
The criteria for determining dose escalation (including stay, de-escalation, and 
elimination) should be explained, with the target dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) rate, the 
boundary for de-escalation and escalation, the number of participants with DLT experience, 
etc. Using tables and flowcharts may be useful for the explanation. 
 
Stopping rules of tolerability evaluation  
It is necessary to explain rules, such as the maximum number of overall participants and 
participants in each dose, and the cutoff probability for controlling overdose. If rules that 
differ from those for other doses applied to specific doses, this must also be clearly stated. 
 
Definition of MTD 
The method for selecting the MTD needs to be explained, including the minimum number 
of cases required to select the MTD, and whether isotonic regression is performed. The 
examples of the definition of MTD are the highest dose not determined to require de-
escalation, the highest dose that the estimated DLT rate is below the target DLT rate, and the 
dose that the estimated DLT rate is closest to the target DLT rate; however, it is not limited 
to these definitions. 
In addition, if there is a possibility that a dose determined to require de-escalation 
(especially at the starting dose) will be selected as the MTD, the appropriateness of the 
selection should also be explained from the safety perspective. 
 
Evaluation metrics for operating characteristics 
The following metrics are particularly important when evaluating the operating characteristics 
of a dose-escalation design from a safety perspective. 
 
Proportion of MTD selection: The proportion of which each dose is selected as the MTD 
 
Average number of participants at each dose 
 
Average number of participants with DLT at each dose 
 
Proportion of the trial termination: The proportion of cases where none of the doses are 


--- Page 4 ---
4 
selected as the MTD 
In a design that determines the escalation based on the target interval of the DLT rate, it is 
possible to present multiple doses together corresponding to the range, but even within the target 
range, the proportion of the selection of each dose according to the MTD definition and the 
proportion of the selection of each dose in the range of excessive toxicity is also important. 
Therefore, it is necessary to present the proportion of MTD selection, the average number of 
participants, and the average number of participants with DLT at each dose. 
 
Scenarios based on the assumption of a dose-toxicity relationship 
When evaluating operating characteristics, it is necessary to consider multiple scenarios that 
assume dose-toxicity relationships. From the safety perspective, it is important that the trial can 
be appropriately terminated without any doses being selected as the MTD in scenarios where all 
doses should not be selected as the MTD (hereafter referred to as "excessive-toxicity scenarios"). 
For example, if the dose with an estimated DLT rate of 33% or less is to be selected as the MTD, 
a scenario in which the true DLT rate exceeds 33% for all doses is an excessive-toxicity scenario. 
In addition, if a scenario with extreme toxicity or sharp rise of toxicity is set as the excessive-
toxicity scenario, there is a possibility that the proportion of termination will be overestimated. 
Therefore, it is desirable to assume a moderate dose-toxicity relationship in which the true DLT 
rate at the lowest dose is slightly higher than the excessive-toxicity threshold. 
 
3.2. 
Key points in evaluating operating characteristics 
When evaluating operating characteristics of a dose-escalation design, the following three points 
are the main key points from the safety perspective. 
( i ) The selection proportion of the dose that should be selected as the MTD is the highest. 
(ii) The number of participants receiving doses with high toxicity has been kept low. 
(iii) The trial will be appropriately terminated in case all doses should not be selected as the MTD. 
In the 30-day-CTN review, the safety is evaluated comprehensively, not only based on the entire 
trial plan including the dose-escalation design, but also on a toxicological and clinical perspective for 
each drug. Therefore, it is difficult to set general criteria as specific values for the proportion and 
number of participants in ( i )  to (iii)  above. However, for ( i )  and (iii)  above, at least the 
proportion of appropriate decisions (dose selection or trial termination) in each scenario should be the 
highest. 
It is also useful to consider the pros and cons of the dose-escalation design adopted compared to 
other dose-escalation designs (e.g., 3+3 design), and to explain what measures can be taken to ensure 
safety if there are any safety-related disadvantages. 
 


--- Page 5 ---
5 
3.3. 
Items requiring further evaluation and consideration of operating characteristics 
Regardless of the dose-escalation design adopted, if the following options will be involved, these 
options should be pre-specified, and it is necessary to evaluate and consider the operating 
characteristics including these options. Even if the options are not pre-specified, it is necessary to 
evaluate and consider the operating characteristics when adding the options, and to consider whether 
it is possible to ensure the safety. It would be useful to evaluate the impact of adding options on the 
operating characteristics by comparing them with the case where the options are not added. 
 
Change in cohort size or minimum number of participants to be evaluated 
If the cohort size or minimum number of participants to be evaluated is changed for doses with 
accelerated escalation during the trials, the impact of the change on the operating characteristics 
must be explained based on simulations. 
It is also necessary to explain the cohort size when additional inclusion is made for the same 
dose. 
Example 
In the case of a dose-escalation design with accelerated escalation, where the cohort size is 
3 but escalation is possible if no DLTs are experienced in the first participant at the starting 
dose, it is necessary to explain whether the number of participants to be added to the same 
dose after DLT is experienced in the first participant at the starting dose falls under any of 
the following: 
 
2 participants (3 participants in total together with the first participant. The total is same 
as the cohort size) 
 
3 participants (4 participants in total together with the first participant. The size of the 
cohort to be added is 3.) 
 
Additional dose 
If any of the following doses may be added during the trial, the conditions for transitioning to 
the added dose must be explained, and the impact of the settings on operating characteristics must 
be explained based on simulations. 
 
A dose lower than the minimum dose specified in advance 
 
Intermediate dose 
If a detailed plan has not yet been decided, it is necessary to set tentative doses and evaluate 
both scenarios that the added dose can be selected as the MTD and scenarios that the added dose 
should not be selected, and to explain the impact of adding doses on the operating characteristics 
based on simulations. 
 
Change in dosing interval/schedule 
If the dosing interval or dosing schedule may be changed during the trial, the impact of the 
change on the operating characteristics must be explained, along with an explanation of the 


--- Page 6 ---
6 
content of the change and the measures taken. 
The following are possible measures but are not limited to them. 
 
Terminate the dose escalation before the change and start dose escalation from the starting 
dose 
 
Suspend the dose escalation before the change, and continue dose escalation considered as 
an additional dose 
In addition, the same approach is also necessary in the case of a dose-escalation design in 
which multiple dosing intervals or dosing schedules are assumed, and the information from the 
different regimens is integrated for the decision to escalate the dose. 
 
Backfill cohort 
After the dose has been confirmed as tolerable and the escalation from the dose is determined, 
the dose may be expanded (known as backfilling) and participants added at a given dose, to 
collect further information for determining the recommended dose and optimizing the dose, in 
parallel with the dose escalation. When evaluating tolerability in the backfill cohort and using 
information on DLT experience in the additional participants for dose escalation based on a dose-
escalation design, it is necessary to explain the impact of the settings on operating characteristics 
based on simulations. If the maximum number of additional participants is fixed but the actual 
number of additional participants may vary, it is also necessary to clarify the simulation settings 
in the explanation. 
 
Dose exploration in combination therapy 
When exploring the dose for combination therapy following the monotherapy, the dose-
escalation design for combination therapy may be determined based on the results of the 
monotherapy. When designing the trial, it is possible that the detailed plan for dose-finding in 
combination therapy has not yet been decided, but even in this case, the operating characteristics 
should be evaluated based on simulations to the extent possible in advance. If the details of the 
design differ from the preliminary assumptions when they are decided, additional investigation 
of the impact on operating characteristics will be needed and efforts should be made to ensure 
safety. 
Regarding combination therapy, when considering the dose or dosing schedule of both drugs 
simultaneously, rather than fixing the dose of one drug and conducting the dose escalation of the 
other, it is needed to fully consider the necessary scenarios based on the order of the combinations 
and to explain the impact on operating characteristics based on simulations. 
 
References: 
1） Notification: PSB/PED No. 0820/1: Handling of Notifications of Clinical Trial Plan by Person 
Intended to be Sponsor, 20-Aug-2024 (in Japanese) 


--- Page 7 ---
7 
2） Notification: PSB/PED No. 0820/2: Handling of Notifications of Clinical Trial Plan by Person 
Intended to be Sponsor-investigator, 20-Aug-2024 (in Japanese) 
3） Check List for 30-day-Clinical Trial Notification Review on an Initial Clinical Trial Notification 
(Oncology Drugs), (in Japanese) https://www.pmda.go.jp/files/000252155.pdf 
 
